{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red190\green0\blue4;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c39608\c80000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c80000\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
1st Corinthians 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sosthenes our brother, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To the church of God which is at Corinth, to those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all who in every place call on the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I thank my God always concerning you for the grace of God which was given to you 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 by Christ Jesus, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that you were enriched in everything by Him in all utterance and all knowledge, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 so that you come short in no gift, eagerly waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who will also confirm you to the end, that you may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now I plead with you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you, but that you be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For it has been declared to me concerning you, my brethren, by those of Chloe's household, that there are contentions among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now I say this, that each of you says, "I am of Paul," or "I am of Apollos," or "I am of Cephas," or "I am of Christ." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 lest anyone should say that I had baptized in my own name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, I also baptized the household of Stephanas. Besides, I do not know whether I baptized any other. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of no effect. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For it is written: "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, And bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For since, in the wisdom of God, the world through wisdom did not know God, it pleased God through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Jews request a sign, and Greeks seek after wisdom;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but we preach Christ crucified, to the Jews a stumbling block and to the Greeks 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 foolishness, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things which are mighty; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and the base things of the world and the things which are despised God has chosen, and the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that no flesh should glory in His presence.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But of Him you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God--and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 righteousness and sanctification and redemption--\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that, as it is written, "He who glories, let him glory in the LORD." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 2
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 And I, brethren, when I came to you, did not come with excellence of speech or of wisdom declaring to you the testimony of God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I determined not to know anything among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was with you in weakness, in fear, and in much trembling.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And my speech and my preaching were not with persuasive words of human 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that your faith should not be in the wisdom of men but in the power of God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 However, we speak wisdom among those who are mature, yet not the wisdom of this age, nor of the rulers of this age, who are coming to nothing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the ages for our glory, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 which none of the rulers of this age knew; for had they known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But as it is written: "Eye has not seen, nor ear heard, Nor have entered into the heart of man The things which God has prepared for those who love Him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But God has revealed them to us through His Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For what man knows the things of a man except the spirit of the man which is in him? Even so no one knows the things of God except the Spirit of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might know the things that have been freely given to us by God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 These things we also speak, not in words which man's wisdom teaches but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God, for they are foolishness to him; nor can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he who is spiritual judges all things, yet he himself is rightly judged by no one. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For "who has known the mind of the LORD that he may instruct Him?" But we have 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the mind of Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 3
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 And I, brethren, could not speak to you as to spiritual people but as to carnal, as to babes in Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I fed you with milk and not with solid food; for until now you were not able to receive it, and even now you are still not able; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for you are still carnal. For where there are envy, strife, and divisions among you, are you not carnal and behaving like mere men? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For when one says, "I am of Paul," and another, "I am of Apollos," are you not carnal? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers through whom you believed, as the Lord gave to each one? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the increase. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now he who plants and he who waters are one, and each one will receive his own reward according to his own labor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we are God's fellow workers; you are God's field, you are God's building. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 According to the grace of God which was given to me, as a wise master builder I have laid the foundation, and another builds on it. But let each one take heed how he builds on it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For no other foundation can anyone lay than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now if anyone builds on this foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 each one's work will become clear; for the Day will declare it, because it will be revealed by fire; and the fire will test each one's work, of what sort it is. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If anyone's work which he has built on it endures, he will receive a reward.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If anyone's work is burned, he will suffer loss; but he himself will be saved, yet so 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 as through fire. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you not know that you are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwells in you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If anyone defiles the temple of God, God will destroy him. For the temple of God is holy, which temple you are. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you seems to be wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, "He catches the wise in their own craftiness"; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and again, "The LORD knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore let no one boast in men. For all things are yours: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas, or the world or life or death, or things present or things to come--all are yours. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 4
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Let a man so consider us, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Moreover it is required in stewards that one be found faithful. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged by you or by a human court. In fact, I do not even judge myself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I know of nothing against myself, yet I am not justified by this; but He who judges me is the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord comes, who will both bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the counsels of the hearts. Then each one's praise will come from God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now these things, brethren, I have figuratively transferred to myself and Apollos for your sakes, that you may learn in us not to think beyond what is written, that none of you may be puffed up on behalf of one against the other. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For who makes you differ from another? And what do you have that you did not receive? Now if you did indeed receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are already full! You are already rich! You have reigned as kings without us-- and indeed I could wish you did reign, that we also might reign with you! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I think that God has displayed us, the apostles, last, as men condemned to death; for we have been made a spectacle to the world, both to angels and to men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We are fools for Christ's sake, but you are wise in Christ! We are weak, but you are strong! You are distinguished, but we are dishonored! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To the present hour we both hunger and thirst, and we are poorly clothed, and beaten, and homeless. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And we labor, working with our own hands. Being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we endure; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 being defamed, we entreat. We have been made as the filth of the world, the offscouring of all things until now. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I do not write these things to shame you, but as my beloved children I warn you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For though you might have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet you do not have 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 many fathers; for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I urge you, imitate me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this reason I have sent Timothy to you, who is my beloved and faithful son in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways in Christ, as I teach everywhere in every church. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now some are puffed up, as though I were not coming to you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord wills, and I will know, not the word of those 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 who are puffed up, but the power.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the kingdom of God is not in word but in power. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What do you want? Shall I come to you with a rod, or in love and a spirit of gentleness? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 5
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and such sexual immorality as is not even named among the Gentiles--that a man has his father's 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wife! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And you are puffed up, and have not rather mourned, that he who has done this deed might be taken away from among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I indeed, as absent in body but present in spirit, have already judged (as though I were present) him who has so done this deed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you are gathered together, along with my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your glorying is not good. Do you not know that a little leaven leavens the whole lump? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore purge out the old leaven, that you may be a new lump, since you truly are unleavened. For indeed Christ, our Passover, was sacrificed for us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, nor with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I wrote to you in my epistle not to keep company with sexually immoral people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet I certainly did not mean with the sexually immoral people of this world, or with the covetous, or extortioners, or idolaters, since then you would need to go out of the world. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But now I have written to you not to keep company with anyone named a brother, who is sexually immoral, or covetous, or an idolater, or a reviler, or a drunkard, or an extortioner--not even to eat with such a person. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For what have I to do with judging those also who are outside? Do you not judge those who are inside? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But those who are outside God judges. Therefore "put away from yourselves the evil person." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 6
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before the unrighteous, and not before the saints? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you not know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world will be judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you not know that we shall judge angels? How much more, things that pertain to this life? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If then you have judgments concerning things pertaining to this life, do you appoint those who are least esteemed by the church to judge? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I say this to your shame. Is it so, that there is not a wise man among you, not even one, who will be able to judge between his brethren? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But brother goes to law against brother, and that before unbelievers! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, it is already an utter failure for you that you go to law against one another. Why do you not rather accept wrong? Why do you not rather let yourselves be cheated? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 No, you yourselves do wrong and cheat, and you do these things to your brethren! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived. Neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor homosexuals, nor sodomites, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners will inherit the kingdom of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And such were some of you. But you were washed, but you were sanctified, but you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All things are lawful for me, but all things are not helpful. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Foods for the stomach and the stomach for foods, but God will destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for sexual immorality but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And God both raised up the Lord and will also raise us up by His power.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you not know that your bodies are members of Christ? Shall I then take the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 members of Christ and make them members of a harlot? Certainly not! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or do you not know that he who is joined to a harlot is one body with her? For "the two," He says, "shall become one flesh." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he who is joined to the Lord is one spirit with Him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Flee sexual immorality. Every sin that a man does is outside the body, but he who 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 commits sexual immorality sins against his own body. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you were bought at a price; therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 7
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now concerning the things of which you wrote to me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless, because of sexual immorality, let each man have his own wife, and let each woman have her own husband. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the husband render to his wife the affection due her, and likewise also the wife to her husband. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wife does not have authority over her own body, but the husband does. And likewise the husband does not have authority over his own body, but the wife does. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not deprive one another except with consent for a time, that you may give yourselves to fasting and prayer; and come together again so that Satan does not tempt you because of your lack of self-control. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I say this as a concession, not as a commandment.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I wish that all men were even as I myself. But each one has his own gift from 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 God, one in this manner and another in that. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I say to the unmarried and to the widows: It is good for them if they remain even as I am; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but if they cannot exercise self-control, let them marry. For it is better to marry than to burn with passion. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now to the married I command, yet not I but the Lord: A wife is not to depart from her husband. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But even if she does depart, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband. And a husband is not to divorce his wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But to the rest I, not the Lord, say: If any brother has a wife who does not believe, and she is willing to live with him, let him not divorce her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And a woman who has a husband who does not believe, if he is willing to live with her, let her not divorce him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband; otherwise your children would be unclean, but now they are holy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if the unbeliever departs, let him depart; a brother or a sister is not under bondage in such cases. But God has called us to peace. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For how do you know, O wife, whether you will save your husband? Or how do you know, O husband, whether you will save your wife? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But as God has distributed to each one, as the Lord has called each one, so let him walk. And so I ordain in all the churches. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Was anyone called while circumcised? Let him not become uncircumcised. Was anyone called while uncircumcised? Let him not be circumcised. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Circumcision is nothing and uncircumcision is nothing, but keeping the commandments of God is what matters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let each one remain in the same calling in which he was called.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Were you called while a slave? Do not be concerned about it; but if you can be 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 made free, rather use it. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he who is called in the Lord while a slave is the Lord's freedman. Likewise he who is called while free is Christ's slave. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You were bought at a price; do not become slaves of men.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Brethren, let each one remain with God in that state in which he was called. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now concerning virgins: I have no commandment from the Lord; yet I give judgment as one whom the Lord in His mercy has made trustworthy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I suppose therefore that this is good because of the present distress--that it is good for a man to remain as he is: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Are you bound to a wife? Do not seek to be loosed. Are you loosed from a wife? Do not seek a wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But even if you do marry, you have not sinned; and if a virgin marries, she has not sinned. Nevertheless such will have trouble in the flesh, but I would spare you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But this I say, brethren, the time is short, so that from now on even those who have wives should be as though they had none, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 those who weep as though they did not weep, those who rejoice as though they did not rejoice, those who buy as though they did not possess, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and those who use this world as not misusing it. For the form of this world is passing away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I want you to be without care. He who is unmarried cares for the things of the Lord--how he may please the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he who is married cares about the things of the world--how he may please his wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is a difference between a wife and a virgin. The unmarried woman cares about the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit. But she who is married cares about the things of the world--how she may please her husband. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And this I say for your own profit, not that I may put a leash on you, but for what is proper, and that you may serve the Lord without distraction. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if any man thinks he is behaving improperly toward his virgin, if she is past the flower of youth, and thus it must be, let him do what he wishes. He does not sin; let them marry. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless he who stands steadfast in his heart, having no necessity, but has power over his own will, and has so determined in his heart that he will keep his virgin, does well. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So then he who gives her in marriage does well, but he who does not give her in marriage does better. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wife is bound by law as long as her husband lives; but if her husband dies, she is at liberty to be married to whom she wishes, only in the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But she is happier if she remains as she is, according to my judgment--and I think I also have the Spirit of God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 8
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now concerning things offered to idols: We know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffs up, but love edifies. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if anyone thinks that he knows anything, he knows nothing yet as he ought to know. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if anyone loves God, this one is known by Him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore concerning the eating of things offered to idols, we know that an idol is 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 nothing in the world, and that there is no other God but one. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For even if there are so-called gods, whether in heaven or on earth (as there are many gods and many lords), 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 yet for us there is one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we for Him; and one Lord Jesus Christ, through whom are all things, and through whom we live. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 However, there is not in everyone that knowledge; for some, with consciousness of the idol, until now eat it as a thing offered to an idol; and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But food does not commend us to God; for neither if we eat are we the better, nor if we do not eat are we the worse. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But beware lest somehow this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to those who are weak. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For if anyone sees you who have knowledge eating in an idol's temple, will not the conscience of him who is weak be emboldened to eat those things offered to idols? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And because of your knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when you thus sin against the brethren, and wound their weak conscience, you sin against Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, if food makes my brother stumble, I will never again eat meat, lest I make my brother stumble. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 9
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I am not an apostle to others, yet doubtless I am to you. For you are the seal of my apostleship in the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My defense to those who examine me is this: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do we have no right to eat and drink? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do we have no right to take along a believing wife, as do also the other apostles, the brothers of the Lord, and Cephas? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or is it only Barnabas and I who have no right to refrain from working?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who ever goes to war at his own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of its fruit? Or who tends a flock and does not drink of the milk of the flock?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do I say these things as a mere man? Or does not the law say the same also? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For it is written in the law of Moses, "You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain." Is it oxen God is concerned about? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or does He say it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, this is written, that he who plows should plow in hope, and he who threshes in hope should be partaker of his hope. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If we have sown spiritual things for you, is it a great thing if we reap your material things? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If others are partakers of this right over you, are we not even more? Nevertheless we have not used this right, but endure all things lest we hinder the gospel of Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you not know that those who minister the holy things eat of the things of the temple, and those who serve at the altar partake of the offerings of the altar? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even so the Lord has commanded that those who preach the gospel should live from the gospel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I have used none of these things, nor have I written these things that it should be done so to me; for it would be better for me to die than that anyone should make my boasting void. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For if I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast of, for necessity is laid upon me; yes, woe is me if I do not preach the gospel! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For if I do this willingly, I have a reward; but if against my will, I have been entrusted with a stewardship. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What is my reward then? That when I preach the gospel, I may present the gospel of Christ without charge, that I may not abuse my authority in the gospel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For though I am free from all men, I have made myself a servant to all, that I might win the more; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and to the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might win Jews; to those who are under the law, as under the law, that I might win those who are under the law; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to those who are without law, as without law (not being without law toward God, but under law toward Christ ), that I might win those who are without law; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to the weak I became as weak, that I might win the weak. I have become all things to all men, that I might by all means save some. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now this I do for the gospel's sake, that I may be partaker of it with you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you not know that those who run in a race all run, but one receives the prize? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Run in such a way that you may obtain it. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And everyone who competes for the prize is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a perishable crown, but we for an imperishable crown. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I run thus: not with uncertainty. Thus I fight: not as one who beats the air. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I discipline my body and bring it into subjection, lest, when I have preached to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 others, I myself should become disqualified. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 10
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Moreover, brethren, I do not want you to be unaware that all our fathers were under the cloud, all passed through the sea, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 all ate the same spiritual food, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they drank of that spiritual Rock that followed them, and that Rock was Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But with most of them God was not well pleased, for their bodies were scattered in the wilderness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now these things became our examples, to the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they also lusted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And do not become idolaters as were some of them. As it is written, "The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nor let us commit sexual immorality, as some of them did, and in one day twenty- three thousand fell; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 nor let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed by serpents; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 nor complain, as some of them also complained, and were destroyed by the destroyer. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now all these things happened to them as examples, and they were written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the ages have come. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 No temptation has overtaken you except such as is common to man; but God is faithful, who will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you are able, but with the temptation will also make the way of escape, that you may be able to bear it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I speak as to wise men; judge for yourselves what I say. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we, though many, are one bread and one body; for we all partake of that one bread. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Observe Israel after the flesh: Are not those who eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What am I saying then? That an idol is anything, or what is offered to idols is anything? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rather, that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice they sacrifice to demons and not to God, and I do not want you to have fellowship with demons. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot partake of the Lord's table and of the table of demons. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All things are lawful for me, but not all things are helpful; all things are lawful for me, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 but not all things edify. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let no one seek his own, but each one the other's well-being. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Eat whatever is sold in the meat market, asking no questions for conscience' sake; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for "the earth is the LORD's, and all its fullness." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If any of those who do not believe invites you to dinner, and you desire to go, eat whatever is set before you, asking no question for conscience' sake. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if anyone says to you, "This was offered to idols," do not eat it for the sake of the one who told you, and for conscience' sake; for "the earth is the LORD's, and all its fullness." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Conscience," I say, not your own, but that of the other. For why is my liberty judged by another man's conscience? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if I partake with thanks, why am I evil spoken of for the food over which I give thanks? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give no offense, either to the Jews or to the Greeks or to the church of God, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 just as I also please all men in all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 11
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Imitate me, just as I also imitate Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now I praise you, brethren, that you remember me in all things and keep the traditions just as I delivered them to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ, the head of woman is man, and the head of Christ is God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonors his head. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 head, for that is one and the same as if her head were shaved. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For if a woman is not covered, let her also be shorn. But if it is shameful for a woman to be shorn or shaved, let her be covered. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God; but woman is the glory of man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For man is not from woman, but woman from man.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nor was man created for the woman, but woman for the man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this reason the woman ought to have a symbol of authority on her head, because of the angels. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless, neither is man independent of woman, nor woman independent of man, in the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For as woman came from man, even so man also comes through woman; but all things are from God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Judge among yourselves. Is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a dishonor to him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if a woman has long hair, it is a glory to her; for her hair is given to her for a covering. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if anyone seems to be contentious, we have no such custom, nor do the churches of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now in giving these instructions I do not praise you, since you come together not for the better but for the worse. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For first of all, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and in part I believe it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For there must also be factions among you, that those who are approved may be recognized among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore when you come together in one place, it is not to eat the Lord's Supper. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For in eating, each one takes his own supper ahead of others; and one is hungry 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and another is drunk. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What! Do you not have houses to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God and shame those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you in this? I do not praise you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you: that the Lord Jesus on the same night in which He was betrayed took bread; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and when He had given thanks, He broke it and said, "Take, eat; this is My body which is broken for you; do this in remembrance of Me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the same manner He also took the cup after supper, saying, "This cup is the new covenant in My blood. This do, as often as you drink it, in remembrance of Me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till He comes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 himself, not discerning the Lord's body.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this reason many are weak and sick among you, and many sleep. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when we are judged, we are chastened by the Lord, that we may not be condemned with the world. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, my brethren, when you come together to eat, wait for one another.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if anyone is hungry, let him eat at home, lest you come together for judgment. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 And the rest I will set in order when I come.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 12
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I do not want you to be ignorant: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You know that you were Gentiles, carried away to these dumb idols, however you were led. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I make known to you that no one speaking by the Spirit of God calls Jesus accursed, and no one can say that Jesus is Lord except by the Holy Spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There are differences of ministries, but the same Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And there are diversities of activities, but it is the same God who works all in all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to each one for the profit of all: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for to one is given the word of wisdom through the Spirit, to another the word of knowledge through the same Spirit, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to another faith by the same Spirit, to another gifts of healings by the same Spirit, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to another the working of miracles, to another prophecy, to another discerning of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 spirits, to another different kinds of tongues, to another the interpretation of tongues. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But one and the same Spirit works all these things, distributing to each one individually as He wills. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For as the body is one and has many members, but all the members of that one body, being many, are one body, so also is Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For by one Spirit we were all baptized into one body--whether Jews or Greeks, whether slaves or free--and have all been made to drink into one Spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For in fact the body is not one member but many. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If the foot should say, "Because I am not a hand, I am not of the body," is it therefore not of the body? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if the ear should say, "Because I am not an eye, I am not of the body," is it therefore not of the body? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If the whole body were an eye, where would be the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where would be the smelling? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But now God has set the members, each one of them, in the body just as He pleased. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if they were all one member, where would the body be? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But now indeed there are many members, yet one body. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the eye cannot say to the hand, "I have no need of you"; nor again the head to the feet, "I have no need of you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 No, much rather, those members of the body which seem to be weaker are necessary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And those members of the body which we think to be less honorable, on these we bestow greater honor; and our unpresentable parts have greater modesty, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but our presentable parts have no need. But God composed the body, having given greater honor to that part which lacks it, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that there should be no schism in the body, but that the members should have the same care for one another. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if one member suffers, all the members suffer with it; or if one member is honored, all the members rejoice with it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now you are the body of Christ, and members individually. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And God has appointed these in the church: first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, administrations, varieties of tongues. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Are all apostles? Are all prophets? Are all teachers? Are all workers of miracles? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do all have gifts of healings? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But earnestly desire the best gifts. And yet I show you a more excellent way. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 13
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I have become sounding brass or a clanging cymbal. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, but have not love, I am nothing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, but have not love, it profits me nothing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Love suffers long and is kind; love does not envy; love does not parade itself, is not puffed up; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 does not behave rudely, does not seek its own, is not provoked, thinks no evil; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Love never fails. But whether there are prophecies, they will fail; whether there are tongues, they will cease; whether there is knowledge, it will vanish away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we know in part and we prophesy in part.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when that which is perfect has come, then that which is in part will be done 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 away. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child; but when I became a man, I put away childish things. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For now we see in a mirror, dimly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then I shall know just as I also am known. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And now abide faith, hope, love, these three; but the greatest of these is love. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 14
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Pursue love, and desire spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men but to God, for no one 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 understands him; however, in the spirit he speaks mysteries.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he who prophesies speaks edification and exhortation and comfort to men.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who speaks in a tongue edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the church. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I wish you all spoke with tongues, but even more that you prophesied; for he who prophesies is greater than he who speaks with tongues, unless indeed he interprets, that the church may receive edification. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But now, brethren, if I come to you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you unless I speak to you either by revelation, by knowledge, by prophesying, or by teaching? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even things without life, whether flute or harp, when they make a sound, unless they make a distinction in the sounds, how will it be known what is piped or played? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For if the trumpet makes an uncertain sound, who will prepare for battle?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So likewise you, unless you utter by the tongue words easy to understand, how will it 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 be known what is spoken? For you will be speaking into the air. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There are, it may be, so many kinds of languages in the world, and none of them is without significance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, if I do not know the meaning of the language, I shall be a foreigner to him who speaks, and he who speaks will be a foreigner to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even so you, since you are zealous for spiritual gifts, let it be for the edification of the church that you seek to excel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore let him who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my understanding is unfruitful. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What is the conclusion then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will also pray with the understanding. I will sing with the spirit, and I will also sing with the understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Otherwise, if you bless with the spirit, how will he who occupies the place of the uninformed say "Amen" at your giving of thanks, since he does not understand what you say? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you indeed give thanks well, but the other is not edified. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I thank my God I speak with tongues more than you all; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 yet in the church I would rather speak five words with my understanding, that I may teach others also, than ten thousand words in a tongue. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Brethren, do not be children in understanding; however, in malice be babes, but in understanding be mature. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the law it is written: "With men of other tongues and other lips I will speak to this people; And yet, for all that, they will not hear Me," says the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe but to unbelievers; but prophesying is not for unbelievers but for those who believe. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore if the whole church comes together in one place, and all speak with tongues, and there come in those who are uninformed or unbelievers, will they not say that you are out of your mind? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or an uninformed person comes in, he is convinced by all, he is convicted by all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And thus the secrets of his heart are revealed; and so, falling down on his face, he will worship God and report that God is truly among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How is it then, brethren? Whenever you come together, each of you has a psalm, has a teaching, has a tongue, has a revelation, has an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If anyone speaks in a tongue, let there be two or at the most three, each in turn, and let one interpret. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if there is no interpreter, let him keep silent in church, and let him speak to himself and to God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others judge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if anything is revealed to another who sits by, let the first keep silent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you can all prophesy one by one, that all may learn and all may be encouraged. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For God is not the author of confusion but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let your women keep silent in the churches, for they are not permitted to speak; but they are to be submissive, as the law also says. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if they want to learn something, let them ask their own husbands at home; for it is shameful for women to speak in church. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or did the word of God come originally from you? Or was it you only that it reached? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If anyone thinks himself to be a prophet or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things which I write to you are the commandments of the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if anyone is ignorant, let him be ignorant.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, brethren, desire earnestly to prophesy, and do not forbid to speak with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 tongues.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let all things be done decently and in order. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 15
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Moreover, brethren, I declare to you the gospel which I preached to you, which also you received and in which you stand, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 by which also you are saved, if you hold fast that word which I preached to you-- unless you believed in vain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I delivered to you first of all that which I also received: that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and that He was buried, and that He rose again the third day according to the Scriptures, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and that He was seen by Cephas, then by the twelve.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 After that He was seen by over five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 part remain to the present, but some have fallen asleep. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 After that He was seen by James, then by all the apostles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then last of all He was seen by me also, as by one born out of due time. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I am the least of the apostles, who am not worthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But by the grace of God I am what I am, and His grace toward me was not in vain; but I labored more abundantly than they all, yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, whether it was I or they, so we preach and so you believed.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now if Christ is preached that He has been raised from the dead, how do some 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 among you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty and your faith is also empty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, and we are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He did not raise up--if in fact the dead do not rise. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For if the dead do not rise, then Christ is not risen. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile; you are still in your sins! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But now Christ is risen from the dead, and has become the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For since by man came death, by Man also came the resurrection of the dead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ all shall be made alive.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But each one in his own order: Christ the firstfruits, afterward those who are Christ's 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 at His coming. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then comes the end, when He delivers the kingdom to God the Father, when He puts an end to all rule and all authority and power. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He must reign till He has put all enemies under His feet. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The last enemy that will be destroyed is death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For "He has put all things under His feet." But when He says "all things are put under Him," it is evident that He who put all things under Him is excepted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when all things are made subject to Him, then the Son Himself will also be subject to Him who put all things under Him, that God may be all in all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Otherwise, what will they do who are baptized for the dead, if the dead do not rise at all? Why then are they baptized for the dead? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And why do we stand in jeopardy every hour?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I affirm, by the boasting in you which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord, I die daily. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If, in the manner of men, I have fought with beasts at Ephesus, what advantage is it to me? If the dead do not rise, "Let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not be deceived: "Evil company corrupts good habits."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Awake to righteousness, and do not sin; for some do not have the knowledge of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 God. I speak this to your shame. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But someone will say, "How are the dead raised up? And with what body do they come?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Foolish one, what you sow is not made alive unless it dies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And what you sow, you do not sow that body that shall be, but mere grain--perhaps wheat or some other grain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But God gives it a body as He pleases, and to each seed its own body.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All flesh is not the same flesh, but there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 animals, another of fish, and another of birds. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There are also celestial bodies and terrestrial bodies; but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars; for one star differs from another star in glory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So also is the resurrection of the dead. The body is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And so it is written, "The first man Adam became a living being." The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 However, the spiritual is not first, but the natural, and afterward the spiritual.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The first man was of the earth, 1made of dust; the second Man is the Lord from 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As was the man of dust, so also are those who are made of dust; and as is the heavenly Man, so also are those who are heavenly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And as we have borne the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly Man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; nor does corruption inherit incorruption. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, I tell you a mystery: We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 53
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 54
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when this corruptible has put on incorruption, and this mortal has put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written: "Death is swallowed up in victory." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 55
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "O Death, where is your sting? O Hades, where is your victory?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 56
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 57
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 58
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, immovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 16
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given orders to the churches of Galatia, so you must do also: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 On the first day of the week let each one of you lay something aside, storing up as he may prosper, that there be no collections when I come. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when I come, whomever you approve by your letters I will send to bear your gift to Jerusalem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if it is fitting that I go also, they will go with me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now I will come to you when I pass through Macedonia (for I am passing through 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Macedonia). 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And it may be that I will remain, or even spend the winter with you, that you may send me on my journey, wherever I go. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I do not wish to see you now on the way; but I hope to stay a while with you, if the Lord permits. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I will tarry in Ephesus until Pentecost.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For a great and effective door has opened to me, and there are many adversaries. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if Timothy comes, see that he may be with you without fear; for he does the work of the Lord, as I also do. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore let no one despise him. But send him on his journey in peace, that he may come to me; for I am waiting for him with the brethren. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now concerning our brother Apollos, I strongly urged him to come to you with the brethren, but he was quite unwilling to come at this time; however, he will come when he has a convenient time. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Watch, stand fast in the faith, be brave, be strong. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let all that you do be done with love. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I urge you, brethren--you know the household of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have devoted themselves to the ministry of the saints-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that you also submit to such, and to everyone who works and labors with us.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am glad about the coming of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus, for what was 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 lacking on your part they supplied.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore acknowledge such men. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The churches of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you heartily in the Lord, with the church that is in their house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All the brethren greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The salutation with my own hand--Paul's.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be accursed. O Lord, come! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen. 
\f0\fs24 \
}