{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red190\green0\blue4;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c39608\c80000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c80000\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
2nd John 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 The Elder, To the elect lady and her children, whom I love in truth, and not only I, but also all those who have known the truth, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 because of the truth which abides in us and will be with us forever:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Grace, mercy, and peace will be with you from God the Father and from the Lord 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I rejoiced greatly that I have found some of your children walking in truth, as we received commandment from the Father. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And now I plead with you, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment to you, but that which we have had from the beginning: that we love one another. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This is love, that we walk according to His commandments. This is the commandment, that as you have heard from the beginning, you should walk in it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For many deceivers have gone out into the world who do not confess Jesus Christ as coming in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Look to yourselves, that we do not lose those things we worked for, but that we may receive a full reward. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever transgresses and does not abide in the doctrine of Christ does not have God. He who abides in the doctrine of Christ has both the Father and the Son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If anyone comes to you and does not bring this doctrine, do not receive him into your house nor greet him; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for he who greets him shares in his evil deeds.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Having many things to write to you, I did not wish to do so with paper and ink; but I 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 hope to come to you and speak face to face, that our joy may be full. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The children of your elect sister greet you. Amen. 
\f0\fs24 \
}