{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red190\green0\blue4;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c39608\c80000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c80000\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Acts 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 The former account I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 until the day in which He was taken up, after He through the Holy Spirit had given commandments to the apostles whom He had chosen, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to whom He also presented Himself alive after His suffering by many infallible proofs, being seen by them during forty days and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And being assembled together with them, He commanded them not to depart from Jerusalem, but to wait for the Promise of the Father, "which," He said, "you have heard from Me; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for John truly baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit not many days from now." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, when they had come together, they asked Him, saying, "Lord, will You at this time restore the kingdom to Israel?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He said to them, "It is not for you to know times or seasons which the Father has put in His own authority. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But you shall receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you; and you shall be witnesses to Me in Jerusalem, and in all Judea and Samaria, and to the end of the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when He had spoken these things, while they watched, He was taken up, and a cloud received Him out of their sight. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as He went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who also said, "Men of Galilee, why do you stand gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, who was taken up from you into heaven, will so come in like manner as you saw Him go into heaven." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they had entered, they went up into the upper room where they were staying: Peter, James, John, and Andrew; Philip and Thomas; Bartholomew and Matthew; James the son of Alphaeus and Simon the Zealot; and Judas the son of James. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the women and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with His brothers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples (altogether the number of names was about a hundred and twenty), and said, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Men and brethren, this Scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for he was numbered with us and obtained a part in this ministry."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 (Now this man purchased a field with the wages of iniquity; and falling headlong, he 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 burst open in the middle and all his entrails gushed out. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And it became known to all those dwelling in Jerusalem; so that field is called in their own language, Akel Dama, that is, Field of Blood.) 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For it is written in the Book of Psalms: "Let his dwelling place be desolate, And let no one live in it'; and, "Let another take his office.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore, of these men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 beginning from the baptism of John to that day when He was taken up from us, one of these must become a witness with us of His resurrection." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they proposed two: Joseph called Barsabas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they prayed and said, "You, O Lord, who know the hearts of all, show which of these two You have chosen 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to take part in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas by transgression fell, that he might go to his own place." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they cast their lots, and the lot fell on Matthias. And he was numbered with the eleven apostles. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 2
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 When the Day of Pentecost had fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And suddenly there came a sound from heaven, as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled the whole house where they were sitting. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then there appeared to them divided tongues, as of fire, and one sat upon each of them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And there were dwelling in Jerusalem Jews, devout men, from every nation under heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when this sound occurred, the multitude came together, and were confused, because everyone heard them speak in his own language. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they were all amazed and marveled, saying to one another, "Look, are not all these who speak Galileans? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And how is it that we hear, each in our own language in which we were born? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Parthians and Medes and Elamites, those dwelling in Mesopotamia, Judea and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Cappadocia, Pontus and Asia, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Phrygia and Pamphylia, Egypt and the parts of Libya adjoining Cyrene, visitors from Rome, both Jews and proselytes, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Cretans and Arabs--we hear them speaking in our own tongues the wonderful works of God." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So they were all amazed and perplexed, saying to one another, "Whatever could this mean?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Others mocking said, "They are full of new wine."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Peter, standing up with the eleven, raised his voice and said to them, "Men of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Judea and all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and heed my words. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For these are not drunk, as you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But this is what was spoken by the prophet Joel: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "And it shall come to pass in the last days, says God, That I will pour out of My Spirit on all flesh; Your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, Your young men shall see visions, Your old men shall dream dreams. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And on My menservants and on My maidservants I will pour out My Spirit in those days; And they shall prophesy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will show wonders in heaven above And signs in the earth beneath: Blood and fire and vapor of smoke. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The sun shall be turned into darkness, And the moon into blood, Before the coming of the great and awesome day of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And it shall come to pass That whoever calls on the name of the LORD Shall be saved.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Men of Israel, hear these words: Jesus of Nazareth, a Man attested by God to you by miracles, wonders, and signs which God did through Him in your midst, as you yourselves also know-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Him, being delivered by the determined purpose and foreknowledge of God, you have taken by lawless hands, have crucified, and put to death; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 whom God raised up, having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that He should be held by it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For David says concerning Him: "I foresaw the LORD always before my face, For He is at my right hand, that I may not be shaken. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore my heart rejoiced, and my tongue was glad; Moreover my flesh also will rest in hope. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You will not leave my soul in Hades, Nor will You allow Your Holy One to see corruption. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have made known to me the ways of life; You will make me full of joy in Your presence.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Men and brethren, let me speak freely to you of the patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that of the fruit of his body, according to the flesh, He would raise up the Christ to sit on his throne, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 he, foreseeing this, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ, that His soul was not left in Hades, nor did His flesh see corruption. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This Jesus God has raised up, of which we are all witnesses.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore being exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, He poured out this which you now see and hear. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he says himself: "The LORD said to my Lord, "Sit at My right hand, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Till I make Your enemies Your footstool."'\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God has made this Jesus, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when they heard this, they were cut to the heart, and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, "Men and brethren, what shall we do?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Peter said to them, "Repent, and let every one of you be baptized in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins; and you shall receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the promise is to you and to your children, and to all who are afar off, as many as the Lord our God will call." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And with many other words he testified and exhorted them, saying, "Be saved from this perverse generation." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then those who gladly received his word were baptized; and that day about three thousand souls were added to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, in the breaking of bread, and in prayers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done through the apostles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now all who believed were together, and had all things in common,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and sold their possessions and goods, and divided them among all, as anyone had 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 need. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, they ate their food with gladness and simplicity of heart, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily those who were being saved. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 3
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now Peter and John went up together to the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask alms from those who entered the temple; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who, seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked for alms. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And fixing his eyes on him, with John, Peter said, "Look at us." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he gave them his attention, expecting to receive something from them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Peter said, "Silver and gold I do not have, but what I do have I give you: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he, leaping up, stood and walked and entered the temple with them--walking, leaping, and praising God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And all the people saw him walking and praising God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they knew that it was he who sat begging alms at the Beautiful Gate of the temple; and they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now as the lame man who was healed held on to Peter and John, all the people ran together to them in the porch which is called Solomon's, greatly amazed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when Peter saw it, he responded to the people: "Men of Israel, why do you marvel at this? Or why look so intently at us, as though by our own power or godliness we had made this man walk? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified His Servant Jesus, whom you delivered up and denied in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to let Him go. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But you denied the Holy One and the Just, and asked for a murderer to be granted to you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and killed the Prince of life, whom God raised from the dead, of which we are witnesses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And His name, through faith in His name, has made this man strong, whom you see and know. Yes, the faith which comes through Him has given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Yet now, brethren, I know that you did it in ignorance, as did also your rulers.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But those things which God foretold by the mouth of all His prophets, that the Christ 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 would suffer, He has thus fulfilled. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Repent therefore and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, so that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and that He may send Jesus Christ, who was preached to you before, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 whom heaven must receive until the times of restoration of all things, which God has spoken by the mouth of all His holy prophets since the world began. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Moses truly said to the fathers, "The LORD your God will raise up for you a Prophet like me from your brethren. Him you shall hear in all things, whatever He says to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And it shall be that every soul who will not hear that Prophet shall be utterly destroyed from among the people.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, and all the prophets, from Samuel and those who follow, as many as have spoken, have also foretold these days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are sons of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying to Abraham, "And in your seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To you first, God, having raised up His Servant Jesus, sent Him to bless you, in turning away every one of you from your iniquities." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 4
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now as they spoke to the people, the priests, the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees came upon them, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 being greatly disturbed that they taught the people and preached in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they laid hands on them, and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 However, many of those who heard the word believed; and the number of the men came to be about five thousand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, on the next day, that their rulers, elders, and scribes,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 as well as Annas the high priest, Caiaphas, John, and Alexander, and as many as 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 were of the family of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, "By what power or by what name have you done this?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, "Rulers of the people and elders of Israel: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If we this day are judged for a good deed done to a helpless man, by what means he has been made well, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 let it be known to you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by Him this man stands here before you whole. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This is the "stone which was rejected by you builders, which has become the chief cornerstone.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nor is there salvation in any other, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were uneducated and untrained men, they marveled. And they realized that they had been with Jesus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And seeing the man who had been healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying, "What shall we do to these men? For, indeed, that a notable miracle has been done through them is evident to all who dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But so that it spreads no further among the people, let us severely threaten them, that from now on they speak to no man in this name." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So they called them and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Peter and John answered and said to them, "Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you more than to God, you judge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way of punishing them, because of the people, since they all glorified God for what had been done. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the man was over forty years old on whom this miracle of healing had been performed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And being let go, they went to their own companions and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when they heard that, they raised their voice to God with one accord and said: "Lord, You are God, who made heaven and earth and the sea, and all that is in them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who by the mouth of Your servant David have said: "Why did the nations rage, And the people plot vain things? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The kings of the earth took their stand, And the rulers were gathered together Against the LORD and against His Christ.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For truly against Your holy Servant Jesus, whom You anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles and the people of Israel, were gathered together 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to do whatever Your hand and Your purpose determined before to be done.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now, Lord, look on their threats, and grant to Your servants that with all boldness 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 they may speak Your word, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 by stretching out Your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may be done through the name of Your holy Servant Jesus." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they had prayed, the place where they were assembled together was shaken; and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit, and they spoke the word of God with boldness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now the multitude of those who believed were of one heart and one soul; neither did anyone say that any of the things he possessed was his own, but they had all things in common. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And with great power the apostles gave witness to the resurrection of the Lord Jesus. And great grace was upon them all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nor was there anyone among them who lacked; for all who were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the proceeds of the things that were sold, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and laid them at the apostles' feet; and they distributed to each as anyone had need. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Joses, who was also named Barnabas by the apostles (which is translated Son of Encouragement), a Levite of the country of Cyprus, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 having land, sold it, and brought the money and laid it at the apostles' feet. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 5
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he kept back part of the proceeds, his wife also being aware of it, and brought a certain part and laid it at the apostles' feet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Peter said, "Ananias, why has Satan filled your heart to lie to the Holy Spirit and keep back part of the price of the land for yourself? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 While it remained, was it not your own? And after it was sold, was it not in your own control? Why have you conceived this thing in your heart? You have not lied to men but to God." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Ananias, hearing these words, fell down and breathed his last. So great fear came upon all those who heard these things. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the young men arose and wrapped him up, carried him out, and buried him. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now it was about three hours later when his wife came in, not knowing what had 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 happened. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Peter answered her, "Tell me whether you sold the land for so much?" She said, "Yes, for so much." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Peter said to her, "How is it that you have agreed together to test the Spirit of the Lord? Look, the feet of those who have buried your husband are at the door, and they will carry you out." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then immediately she fell down at his feet and breathed her last. And the young men came in and found her dead, and carrying her out, buried her by her husband. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So great fear came upon all the church and upon all who heard these things. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And through the hands of the apostles many signs and wonders were done among the people. And they were all with one accord in Solomon's Porch. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet none of the rest dared join them, but the people esteemed them highly.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And believers were increasingly added to the Lord, multitudes of both men and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 women, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 so that they brought the sick out into the streets and laid them on beds and couches, that at least the shadow of Peter passing by might fall on some of them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also a multitude gathered from the surrounding cities to Jerusalem, bringing sick people and those who were tormented by unclean spirits, and they were all healed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the high priest rose up, and all those who were with him (which is the sect of the Sadducees), and they were filled with indignation, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and laid their hands on the apostles and put them in the common prison.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But at night an angel of the Lord opened the prison doors and brought them out, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and said, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Go, stand in the temple and speak to the people all the words of this life." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they heard that, they entered the temple early in the morning and taught. But the high priest and those with him came and called the council together, with all the elders of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when the officers came and did not find them in the prison, they returned and reported, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying, "Indeed we found the prison shut securely, and the guards standing outside before the doors; but when we opened them, we found no one inside!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when the high priest, the captain of the temple, and the chief priests heard these things, they wondered what the outcome would be. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So one came and told them, saying, "Look, the men whom you put in prison are standing in the temple and teaching the people!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the captain went with the officers and brought them without violence, for they feared the people, lest they should be stoned. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they had brought them, they set them before the council. And the high priest asked them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying, "Did we not strictly command you not to teach in this name? And look, you have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this Man's blood on us!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Peter and the other apostles answered and said: "We ought to obey God rather than men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The God of our fathers raised up Jesus whom you murdered by hanging on a tree. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Him God has exalted to His right hand to be Prince and Savior, to give repentance 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 to Israel and forgiveness of sins. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And we are His witnesses to these things, and so also is the Holy Spirit whom God has given to those who obey Him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they heard this, they were furious and plotted to kill them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then one in the council stood up, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law held in respect by all the people, and commanded them to put the apostles outside for a little while. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he said to them: "Men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what you intend to do regarding these men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For some time ago Theudas rose up, claiming to be somebody. A number of men, about four hundred, joined him. He was slain, and all who obeyed him were scattered and came to nothing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 After this man, Judas of Galilee rose up in the days of the census, and drew away many people after him. He also perished, and all who obeyed him were dispersed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And now I say to you, keep away from these men and let them alone; for if this plan or this work is of men, it will come to nothing; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but if it is of God, you cannot overthrow it--lest you even be found to fight against God." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they agreed with him, and when they had called for the apostles and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for His name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And daily in the temple, and in every house, they did not cease teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 6
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplying, there arose a complaint against the Hebrews by the Hellenists, because their widows were 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 neglected in the daily distribution. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the twelve summoned the multitude of the disciples and said, "It is not desirable that we should leave the word of God and serve tables. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, brethren, seek out from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Holy Spirit and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the word." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the saying pleased the whole multitude. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Prochorus, Nicanor, Timon, Parmenas, and Nicolas, a proselyte from Antioch, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 whom they set before the apostles; and when they had prayed, they laid hands on them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the word of God spread, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests were obedient to the faith. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and signs among the people. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then there arose some from what is called the Synagogue of the Freedmen 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 (Cyrenians, Alexandrians, and those from Cilicia and Asia), disputing with Stephen. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the Spirit by which he spoke. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they secretly induced men to say, "We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses and God." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they stirred up the people, the elders, and the scribes; and they came upon him, seized him, and brought him to the council. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They also set up false witnesses who said, "This man does not cease to speak blasphemous words against this holy place and the law; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth will destroy this place and change the customs which Moses delivered to us." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And all who sat in the council, looking steadfastly at him, saw his face as the face of an angel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 7
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then the high priest said, "Are these things so?"\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "Brethren and fathers, listen: The God of glory appeared to our father 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Haran, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and said to him, "Get out of your country and from your relatives, and come to a land that I will show you.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he came out of the land of the Chaldeans and dwelt in Haran. And from there, when his father was dead, He moved him to this land in which you now dwell. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And God gave him no inheritance in it, not even enough to set his foot on. But even when Abraham had no child, He promised to give it to him for a possession, and to his descendants after him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But God spoke in this way: that his descendants would dwell in a foreign land, and that they would bring them into bondage and oppress them four hundred years. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "And the nation to whom they will be in bondage I will judge,' said God, "and after that they shall come out and serve Me in this place.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then He gave him the covenant of circumcision; and so Abraham begot Isaac and circumcised him on the eighth day; and Isaac begot Jacob, and Jacob begot the twelve patriarchs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "And the patriarchs, becoming envious, sold Joseph into Egypt. But God was with him 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and delivered him out of all his troubles, and gave him favor and wisdom in the presence of Pharaoh, king of Egypt; and he made him governor over Egypt and all his house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now a famine and great trouble came over all the land of Egypt and Canaan, and our fathers found no sustenance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when Jacob heard that there was grain in Egypt, he sent out our fathers first. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the second time Joseph was made known to his brothers, and Joseph's family 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 became known to the Pharaoh. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph sent and called his father Jacob and all his relatives to him, seventy- five people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob went down to Egypt; and he died, he and our fathers.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they were carried back to Shechem and laid in the tomb that Abraham bought 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 for a sum of money from the sons of Hamor, the father of Shechem. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But when the time of the promise drew near which God had sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 till another king arose who did not know Joseph.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This man dealt treacherously with our people, and oppressed our forefathers, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 making them expose their babies, so that they might not live. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At this time Moses was born, and was well pleasing to God; and he was brought up in his father's house for three months. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when he was set out, Pharaoh's daughter took him away and brought him up as her own son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and deeds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now when he was forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren, the children of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended and avenged him who was oppressed, and struck down the Egyptian. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he supposed that his brethren would have understood that God would deliver them by his hand, but they did not understand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the next day he appeared to two of them as they were fighting, and tried to reconcile them, saying, "Men, you are brethren; why do you wrong one another?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he who did his neighbor wrong pushed him away, saying, "Who made you a ruler and a judge over us? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you want to kill me as you did the Egyptian yesterday?'\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then, at this saying, Moses fled and became a dweller in the land of Midian, where 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 he had two sons. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "And when forty years had passed, an Angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire in a bush, in the wilderness of Mount Sinai. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When Moses saw it, he marveled at the sight; and as he drew near to observe, the voice of the Lord came to him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying, "I am the God of your fathers--the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.' And Moses trembled and dared not look. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Then the LORD said to him, "Take your sandals off your feet, for the place where you stand is holy ground. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have surely seen the oppression of My people who are in Egypt; I have heard their groaning and have come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send you to Egypt."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "This Moses whom they rejected, saying, "Who made you a ruler and a judge?' is the one God sent to be a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the Angel who appeared to him in the bush. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He brought them out, after he had shown wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and in the Red Sea, and in the wilderness forty years. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "This is that Moses who said to the children of Israel, "The LORD your God will raise up for you a Prophet like me from your brethren. Him you shall hear.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "This is he who was in the congregation in the wilderness with the Angel who spoke to him on Mount Sinai, and with our fathers, the one who received the living oracles to give to us, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 whom our fathers would not obey, but rejected. And in their hearts they turned back to Egypt, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying to Aaron, "Make us gods to go before us; as for this Moses who brought us out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they made a calf in those days, offered sacrifices to the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then God turned and gave them up to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the book of the Prophets: "Did you offer Me slaughtered animals and sacrifices during forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You also took up the tabernacle of Moloch, And the star of your god Remphan, Images which you made to worship; And I will carry you away beyond Babylon.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as He appointed, instructing Moses to make it according to the pattern that he had seen, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 which our fathers, having received it in turn, also brought with Joshua into the land possessed by the Gentiles, whom God drove out before the face of our fathers until the days of David, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who found favor before God and asked to find a dwelling for the God of Jacob. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Solomon built Him a house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "However, the Most High does not dwell in temples made with hands, as the prophet says: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Heaven is My throne, And earth is My footstool. What house will you build for Me? says the LORD, Or what is the place of My rest? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Has My hand not made all these things?'\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "You stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears! You always resist the Holy 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Spirit; as your fathers did, so do you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Which of the prophets did your fathers not persecute? And they killed those who foretold the coming of the Just One, of whom you now have become the betrayers and murderers, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 53
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who have received the law by the direction of angels and have not kept it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 54
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they heard these things they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed at him with their teeth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 55
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he, being full of the Holy Spirit, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing at the right hand of God, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 56
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and said, "Look! I see the heavens opened and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 57
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they cried out with a loud voice, stopped their ears, and ran at him with one accord; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 58
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and they cast him out of the city and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at the feet of a young man named Saul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 59
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they stoned Stephen as he was calling on God and saying, "Lord Jesus, receive my spirit." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 60
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he knelt down and cried out with a loud voice, "Lord, do not charge them with this sin." And when he had said this, he fell asleep. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 8
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now Saul was consenting to his death. At that time a great persecution arose against the church which was at Jerusalem; and they were all scattered throughout 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made great lamentation over him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for Saul, he made havoc of the church, entering every house, and dragging off men and women, committing them to prison. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore those who were scattered went everywhere preaching the word. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the multitudes with one accord heeded the things spoken by Philip, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For unclean spirits, crying with a loud voice, came out of many who were possessed; and many who were paralyzed and lame were healed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And there was great joy in that city.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But there was a certain man called Simon, who previously practiced sorcery in the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 city and astonished the people of Samaria, claiming that he was someone great, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, "This man is the great power of God." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they heeded him because he had astonished them with his sorceries for a long time. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when they believed Philip as he preached the things concerning the kingdom of God and the name of Jesus Christ, both men and women were baptized. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Simon himself also believed; and when he was baptized he continued with Philip, and was amazed, seeing the miracles and signs which were done. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when the apostles who were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent Peter and John to them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who, when they had come down, prayed for them that they might receive the Holy Spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For as yet He had fallen upon none of them. They had only been baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they laid hands on them, and they received the Holy Spirit.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when Simon saw that through the laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Spirit was given, he offered them money, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying, "Give me this power also, that anyone on whom I lay hands may receive the Holy Spirit." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Peter said to him, "Your money perish with you, because you thought that the gift of God could be purchased with money! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have neither part nor portion in this matter, for your heart is not right in the sight of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Repent therefore of this your wickedness, and pray God if perhaps the thought of your heart may be forgiven you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I see that you are poisoned by bitterness and bound by iniquity."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Simon answered and said, "Pray to the Lord for me, that none of the things 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 which you have spoken may come upon me." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, they returned to Jerusalem, preaching the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, "Arise and go toward the south along the road which goes down from Jerusalem to Gaza." This is desert. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he arose and went. And behold, a man of Ethiopia, a eunuch of great authority under Candace the queen of the Ethiopians, who had charge of all her treasury, and had come to Jerusalem to worship, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 was returning. And sitting in his chariot, he was reading Isaiah the prophet. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the Spirit said to Philip, "Go near and overtake this chariot." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Philip ran to him, and heard him reading the prophet Isaiah, and said, "Do you understand what you are reading?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "How can I, unless someone guides me?" And he asked Philip to come up and sit with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The place in the Scripture which he read was this: "He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; And as a lamb before its shearer is silent, So He opened not His mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In His humiliation His justice was taken away, And who will declare His generation? For His life is taken from the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the eunuch answered Philip and said, "I ask you, of whom does the prophet say this, of himself or of some other man?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Philip opened his mouth, and beginning at this Scripture, preached Jesus to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now as they went down the road, they came to some water. And the eunuch said, "See, here is water. What hinders me from being baptized?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Philip said, "If you believe with all your heart, you may." And he answered and said, "I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he commanded the chariot to stand still. And both Philip and the eunuch went down into the water, and he baptized him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when they came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught Philip away, so that the eunuch saw him no more; and he went on his way rejoicing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Philip was found at Azotus. And passing through, he preached in all the cities till he came to Caesarea. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 9
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and asked letters from him to the synagogues of Damascus, so that if he found any who were of the Way, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As he journeyed he came near Damascus, and suddenly a light shone around him from heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he fell to the ground, and heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "Who are You, Lord?" Then the Lord said, "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. It is hard for you to kick against the goads." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he, trembling and astonished, said, "Lord, what do You want me to do?" Then the Lord said to him, "Arise and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the men who journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice but seeing no one. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Saul arose from the ground, and when his eyes were opened he saw no one. But they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he was three days without sight, and neither ate nor drank. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias; and to him the Lord said in a vision, "Ananias." And he said, "Here I am, Lord." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the Lord said to him, "Arise and go to the street called Straight, and inquire at the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus, for behold, he is praying. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And in a vision he has seen a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him, so that he might receive his sight." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Ananias answered, "Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much harm he has done to Your saints in Jerusalem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And here he has authority from the chief priests to bind all who call on Your name." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the Lord said to him, "Go, for he is a chosen vessel of Mine to bear My name 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I will show him how many things he must suffer for My name's sake." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Ananias went his way and entered the house; and laying his hands on him he said, "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road as you came, has sent me that you may receive your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales, and he received his sight at once; and he arose and was baptized. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when he had received food, he was strengthened. Then Saul spent some days with the disciples at Damascus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Immediately he preached the Christ in the synagogues, that He is the Son of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then all who heard were amazed, and said, "Is this not he who destroyed those who called on this name in Jerusalem, and has come here for that purpose, so that he might bring them bound to the chief priests?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Saul increased all the more in strength, and confounded the Jews who dwelt in Damascus, proving that this Jesus is the Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now after many days were past, the Jews plotted to kill him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But their plot became known to Saul. And they watched the gates day and night, to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 kill him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the disciples took him by night and let him down through the wall in a large basket. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when Saul had come to Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples; but they were all afraid of him, and did not believe that he was a disciple. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles. And he declared to them how he had seen the Lord on the road, and that He had spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he was with them at Jerusalem, coming in and going out.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he spoke boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus and disputed against the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Hellenists, but they attempted to kill him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the brethren found out, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him out to Tarsus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the churches throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace and were edified. And walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, they were multiplied. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now it came to pass, as Peter went through all parts of the country, that he also came down to the saints who dwelt in Lydda. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There he found a certain man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden eight years and was paralyzed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus the Christ heals you. Arise and make your bed." Then he arose immediately. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So all who dwelt at Lydda and Sharon saw him and turned to the Lord.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At Joppa there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which is translated Dorcas. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 This woman was full of good works and charitable deeds which she did. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But it happened in those days that she became sick and died. When they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And since Lydda was near Joppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent two men to him, imploring him not to delay in coming to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Peter arose and went with them. When he had come, they brought him to the upper room. And all the widows stood by him weeping, showing the tunics and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Peter put them all out, and knelt down and prayed. And turning to the body he said, "Tabitha, arise." And she opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter she sat up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he gave her his hand and lifted her up; and when he had called the saints and widows, he presented her alive. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And it became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed on the Lord. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So it was that he stayed many days in Joppa with Simon, a tanner. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 10
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion of what was called the Italian Regiment, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 a devout man and one who feared God with all his household, who gave alms generously to the people, and prayed to God always. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 About the ninth hour of the day he saw clearly in a vision an angel of God coming in and saying to him, "Cornelius!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he observed him, he was afraid, and said, "What is it, lord?" So he said to him, "Your prayers and your alms have come up for a memorial before God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now send men to Joppa, and send for Simon whose surname is Peter.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He is lodging with Simon, a tanner, whose house is by the sea. He will tell you what 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 you must do." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when the angel who spoke to him had departed, Cornelius called two of his household servants and a devout soldier from among those who waited on him continually. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when he had explained all these things to them, he sent them to Joppa.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The next day, as they went on their journey and drew near the city, Peter went up on 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the housetop to pray, about the sixth hour. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he became very hungry and wanted to eat; but while they made ready, he fell into a trance 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and saw heaven opened and an object like a great sheet bound at the four corners, descending to him and let down to the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In it were all kinds of four-footed animals of the earth, wild beasts, creeping things, and birds of the air. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And a voice came to him, "Rise, Peter; kill and eat."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Peter said, "Not so, Lord! For I have never eaten anything common or unclean." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And a voice spoke to him again the second time, "What God has cleansed you must not call common." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This was done three times. And the object was taken up into heaven again. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now while Peter wondered within himself what this vision which he had seen meant, behold, the men who had been sent from Cornelius had made inquiry for Simon's house, and stood before the gate. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they called and asked whether Simon, whose surname was Peter, was lodging there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 While Peter thought about the vision, the Spirit said to him, "Behold, three men are seeking you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Arise therefore, go down and go with them, doubting nothing; for I have sent them." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Peter went down to the men who had been sent to him from Cornelius, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 said, "Yes, I am he whom you seek. For what reason have you come?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they said, "Cornelius the centurion, a just man, one who fears God and has a good reputation among all the nation of the Jews, was divinely instructed by a holy angel to summon you to his house, and to hear words from you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he invited them in and lodged them. On the next day Peter went away with them, and some brethren from Joppa accompanied him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the following day they entered Caesarea. Now Cornelius was waiting for them, and had called together his relatives and close friends. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him and fell down at his feet and worshiped him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Peter lifted him up, saying, "Stand up; I myself am also a man." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And as he talked with him, he went in and found many who had come together. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he said to them, "You know how unlawful it is for a Jewish man to keep company with or go to one of another nation. But God has shown me that I should not call any man common or unclean. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I came without objection as soon as I was sent for. I ask, then, for what reason have you sent for me?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Cornelius said, "Four days ago I was fasting until this hour; and at the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and said, "Cornelius, your prayer has been heard, and your alms are remembered in the sight of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Send therefore to Joppa and call Simon here, whose surname is Peter. He is lodging in the house of Simon, a tanner, by the sea. When he comes, he will speak to you.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I sent to you immediately, and you have done well to come. Now therefore, we are all present before God, to hear all the things commanded you by God." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Peter opened his mouth and said: "In truth I perceive that God shows no partiality. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But in every nation whoever fears Him and works righteousness is accepted by Him. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The word which God sent to the children of Israel, preaching peace through Jesus 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Christ--He is Lord of all-- 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that word you know, which was proclaimed throughout all Judea, and began from Galilee after the baptism which John preached: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power, who went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And we are witnesses of all things which He did both in the land of the Jews and in Jerusalem, whom they killed by hanging on a tree. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Him God raised up on the third day, and showed Him openly,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 not to all the people, but to witnesses chosen before by God, even to us who ate 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and drank with Him after He arose from the dead. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He commanded us to preach to the people, and to testify that it is He who was ordained by God to be Judge of the living and the dead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To Him all the prophets witness that, through His name, whoever believes in Him will receive remission of sins." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 While Peter was still speaking these words, the Holy Spirit fell upon all those who heard the word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And those of the circumcision who believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because the gift of the Holy Spirit had been poured out on the Gentiles also. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they heard them speak with tongues and magnify God. Then Peter answered, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Can anyone forbid water, that these should not be baptized who have received the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Holy Spirit just as we have?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then they asked him to stay a few days. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 11
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now the apostles and brethren who were in Judea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when Peter came up to Jerusalem, those of the circumcision contended with him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying, "You went in to uncircumcised men and ate with them!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Peter explained it to them in order from the beginning, saying: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I was in the city of Joppa praying; and in a trance I saw a vision, an object descending like a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners; and it came to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I observed it intently and considered, I saw four-footed animals of the earth, wild beasts, creeping things, and birds of the air. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And I heard a voice saying to me, "Rise, Peter; kill and eat.'\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I said, "Not so, Lord! For nothing common or unclean has at any time entered 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 my mouth.' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the voice answered me again from heaven, "What God has cleansed you must not call common.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now this was done three times, and all were drawn up again into heaven.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At that very moment, three men stood before the house where I was, having been 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 sent to me from Caesarea. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the Spirit told me to go with them, doubting nothing. Moreover these six brethren accompanied me, and we entered the man's house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he told us how he had seen an angel standing in his house, who said to him, "Send men to Joppa, and call for Simon whose surname is Peter, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who will tell you words by which you and all your household will be saved.'\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And as I began to speak, the Holy Spirit fell upon them, as upon us at the beginning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I remembered the word of the Lord, how He said, "John indeed baptized with water, but you shall be baptized with the Holy Spirit.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If therefore God gave them the same gift as He gave us when we believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, who was I that I could withstand God?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they heard these things they became silent; and they glorified God, saying, "Then God has also granted to the Gentiles repentance to life." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now those who were scattered after the persecution that arose over Stephen traveled as far as Phoenicia, Cyprus, and Antioch, preaching the word to no one but the Jews only. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But some of them were men from Cyprus and Cyrene, who, when they had come to Antioch, spoke to the Hellenists, preaching the Lord Jesus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the hand of the Lord was with them, and a great number believed and turned to the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then news of these things came to the ears of the church in Jerusalem, and they sent out Barnabas to go as far as Antioch. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When he came and had seen the grace of God, he was glad, and encouraged them all that with purpose of heart they should continue with the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he was a good man, full of the Holy Spirit and of faith. And a great many people were added to the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Barnabas departed for Tarsus to seek Saul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he had found him, he brought him to Antioch. So it was that for a whole year they assembled with the church and taught a great many people. And the disciples were first called Christians in Antioch. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And in these days prophets came from Jerusalem to Antioch. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then one of them, named Agabus, stood up and showed by the Spirit that there was going to be a great famine throughout all the world, which also happened in the days of Claudius Caesar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the disciples, each according to his ability, determined to send relief to the brethren dwelling in Judea. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This they also did, and sent it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 12
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now about that time Herod the king stretched out his hand to harass some 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 from the church.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he killed James the brother of John with the sword. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And because he saw that it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to seize Peter also. Now it was during the Days of Unleavened Bread. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when he had arrested him, he put him in prison, and delivered him to four squads of soldiers to keep him, intending to bring him before the people after Passover. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Peter was therefore kept in prison, but constant prayer was offered to God for him by the church. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when Herod was about to bring him out, that night Peter was sleeping, bound with two chains between two soldiers; and the guards before the door were keeping the prison. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now behold, an angel of the Lord stood by him, and a light shone in the prison; and he struck Peter on the side and raised him up, saying, "Arise quickly!" And his chains fell off his hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the angel said to him, "Gird yourself and tie on your sandals"; and so he did. And he said to him, "Put on your garment and follow me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he went out and followed him, and did not know that what was done by the angel was real, but thought he was seeing a vision. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they were past the first and the second guard posts, they came to the iron gate that leads to the city, which opened to them of its own accord; and they went out and went down one street, and immediately the angel departed from him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when Peter had come to himself, he said, "Now I know for certain that the Lord has sent His angel, and has delivered me from the hand of Herod and from all the expectation of the Jewish people." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So, when he had considered this, he came to the house of Mary, the mother of John whose surname was Mark, where many were gathered together praying. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And as Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a girl named Rhoda came to answer. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When she recognized Peter's voice, because of her gladness she did not open the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 gate, but ran in and announced that Peter stood before the gate. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But they said to her, "You are beside yourself!" Yet she kept insisting that it was so. So they said, "It is his angel." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now Peter continued knocking; and when they opened the door and saw him, they were astonished. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But motioning to them with his hand to keep silent, he declared to them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And he said, "Go, tell these things to James and to the brethren." And he departed and went to another place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then, as soon as it was day, there was no small stir among the soldiers about what had become of Peter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when Herod had searched for him and not found him, he examined the guards and commanded that they should be put to death. And he went down from Judea to Caesarea, and stayed there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now Herod had been very angry with the people of Tyre and Sidon; but they came to him with one accord, and having made Blastus the king's personal aide their friend, they asked for peace, because their country was supplied with food by the king's country. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So on a set day Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat on his throne and gave an oration to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the people kept shouting, "The voice of a god and not of a man!"\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then immediately an angel of the Lord struck him, because he did not give glory to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 God. And he was eaten by worms and died. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the word of God grew and multiplied. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem when they had fulfilled their ministry, and they also took with them John whose surname was Mark. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 13
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now in the church that was at Antioch there were certain prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simeon who was called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen who 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, "Now separate to Me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then, having fasted and prayed, and laid hands on them, they sent them away.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So, being sent out by the Holy Spirit, they went down to Seleucia, and from there 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 they sailed to Cyprus. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they arrived in Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews. They also had John as their assistant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when they had gone through the island to Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew whose name was Bar-Jesus, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who was with the proconsul, Sergius Paulus, an intelligent man. This man called for Barnabas and Saul and sought to hear the word of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Elymas the sorcerer (for so his name is translated) withstood them, seeking to turn the proconsul away from the faith. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Saul, who also is called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, looked intently at him 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and said, "O full of all deceit and all fraud, you son of the devil, you enemy of all 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 righteousness, will you not cease perverting the straight ways of the Lord? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And now, indeed, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you shall be blind, not seeing the sun for a time." And immediately a dark mist fell on him, and he went around seeking someone to lead him by the hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the proconsul believed, when he saw what had been done, being astonished at the teaching of the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when Paul and his party set sail from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia; and John, departing from them, returned to Jerusalem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when they departed from Perga, they came to Antioch in Pisidia, and went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and sat down. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And after the reading of the Law and the Prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent to them, saying, "Men and brethren, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say on." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul stood up, and motioning with his hand said, "Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The God of this people Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they dwelt as strangers in the land of Egypt, and with an uplifted arm He brought them out of it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now for a time of about forty years He put up with their ways in the wilderness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when He had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, He distributed their land to them by allotment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "After that He gave them judges for about four hundred and fifty years, until Samuel the prophet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And afterward they asked for a king; so God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when He had removed him, He raised up for them David as king, to whom also He gave testimony and said, "I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after My own heart, who will do all My will.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From this man's seed, according to the promise, God raised up for Israel a Savior-- Jesus-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 after John had first preached, before His coming, the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And as John was finishing his course, he said, "Who do you think I am? I am not He. But behold, there comes One after me, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to loose.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Men and brethren, sons of the family of Abraham, and those among you who fear God, to you the word of this salvation has been sent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For those who dwell in Jerusalem, and their rulers, because they did not know Him, nor even the voices of the Prophets which are read every Sabbath, have fulfilled them in condemning Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And though they found no cause for death in Him, they asked Pilate that He should be put to death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when they had fulfilled all that was written concerning Him, they took Him down from the tree and laid Him in a tomb. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But God raised Him from the dead.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He was seen for many days by those who came up with Him from Galilee to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Jerusalem, who are His witnesses to the people.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And we declare to you glad tidings--that promise which was made to the fathers. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God has fulfilled this for us their children, in that He has raised up Jesus. As it is also written in the second Psalm: "You are My Son, Today I have begotten You.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And that He raised Him from the dead, no more to return to corruption, He has spoken thus: "I will give you the sure mercies of David.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore He also says in another Psalm: "You will not allow Your Holy One to see corruption.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For David, after he had served his own generation by the will of God, fell asleep, was buried with his fathers, and saw corruption; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but He whom God raised up saw no corruption.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore let it be known to you, brethren, that through this Man is preached to you 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the forgiveness of sins; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and by Him everyone who believes is justified from all things from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Beware therefore, lest what has been spoken in the prophets come upon you: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Behold, you despisers, Marvel and perish! For I work a work in your days, A work 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 which you will by no means believe, Though one were to declare it to you."' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when the Jews went out of the synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be preached to them the next Sabbath. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when the congregation had broken up, many of the Jews and devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who, speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 On the next Sabbath almost the whole city came together to hear the word of God. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy; and contradicting 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and blaspheming, they opposed the things spoken by Paul. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul and Barnabas grew bold and said, "It was necessary that the word of God should be spoken to you first; but since you reject it, and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For so the Lord has commanded us: "I have set you as a light to the Gentiles, That you should be for salvation to the ends of the earth."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord. And as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the word of the Lord was being spread throughout all the region. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the Jews stirred up the devout and prominent women and the chief men of the city, raised up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them from their region. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But they shook off the dust from their feet against them, and came to Iconium. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 14
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now it happened in Iconium that they went together to the synagogue of the Jews, and so spoke that a great multitude both of the Jews and of the Greeks 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 believed. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles and poisoned their minds against the brethren. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore they stayed there a long time, speaking boldly in the Lord, who was bearing witness to the word of His grace, granting signs and wonders to be done by their hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the multitude of the city was divided: part sided with the Jews, and part with the apostles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when a violent attempt was made by both the Gentiles and Jews, with their rulers, to abuse and stone them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 they became aware of it and fled to Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and to the surrounding region. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they were preaching the gospel there.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And in Lystra a certain man without strength in his feet was sitting, a cripple from his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 mother's womb, who had never walked. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This man heard Paul speaking. Paul, observing him intently and seeing that he had faith to be healed, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 said with a loud voice, "Stand up straight on your feet!" And he leaped and walked. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when the people saw what Paul had done, they raised their voices, saying in 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the Lycaonian language, "The gods have come down to us in the likeness of men!" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Barnabas they called Zeus, and Paul, Hermes, because he was the chief speaker. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the priest of Zeus, whose temple was in front of their city, brought oxen and garlands to the gates, intending to sacrifice with the multitudes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when the apostles Barnabas and Paul heard this, they tore their clothes and ran in among the multitude, crying out 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and saying, "Men, why are you doing these things? We also are men with the same nature as you, and preach to you that you should turn from these useless things to the living God, who made the heaven, the earth, the sea, and all things that are in them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who in bygone generations allowed all nations to walk in their own ways. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless He did not leave Himself without witness, in that He did good, gave us 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 rain from heaven and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And with these sayings they could scarcely restrain the multitudes from sacrificing to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Jews from Antioch and Iconium came there; and having persuaded the multitudes, they stoned Paul and dragged him out of the city, supposing him to be dead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 However, when the disciples gathered around him, he rose up and went into the city. And the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derbe. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they had preached the gospel to that city and made many disciples, they returned to Lystra, Iconium, and Antioch, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 strengthening the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith, and saying, "We must through many tribulations enter the kingdom of God." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when they had appointed elders in every church, and prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they had believed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And after they had passed through Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down to Attalia. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From there they sailed to Antioch, where they had been commended to the grace of God for the work which they had completed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when they had come and gathered the church together, they reported all that God had done with them, and that He had opened the door of faith to the Gentiles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So they stayed there a long time with the disciples.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 15
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 And certain men came down from Judea and taught the brethren, "Unless you 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, when Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and dispute with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain others of them should go up to Jerusalem, to the apostles and elders, about this question. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So, being sent on their way by the church, they passed through Phoenicia and Samaria, describing the conversion of the Gentiles; and they caused great joy to all the brethren. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they had come to Jerusalem, they were received by the church and the apostles and the elders; and they reported all things that God had done with them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But some of the sect of the Pharisees who believed rose up, saying, "It is necessary to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the law of Moses." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now the apostles and elders came together to consider this matter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when there had been much dispute, Peter rose up and said to them: "Men and brethren, you know that a good while ago God chose among us, that by my mouth the Gentiles should hear the word of the gospel and believe. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So God, who knows the heart, acknowledged them by giving them the Holy Spirit, just as He did to us, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and made no distinction between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, why do you test God by putting a yoke on the neck of the disciples which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But we believe that through the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ we shall be saved in the same manner as they." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then all the multitude kept silent and listened to Barnabas and Paul declaring how many miracles and wonders God had worked through them among the Gentiles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And after they had become silent, James answered, saying, "Men and brethren, listen to me: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Simon has declared how God at the first visited the Gentiles to take out of them a people for His name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And with this the words of the prophets agree, just as it is written:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 'After this I will return And will rebuild the tabernacle of David, which has fallen 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 down; I will rebuild its ruins, And I will set it up; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So that the rest of mankind may seek the LORD. Even all the Gentiles who are called by My name, Says the LORD who does all these things.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Known to God from eternity are all His works.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I judge that we should not trouble those from among the Gentiles who 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 are turning to God, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but that we write to them to abstain from things polluted by idols, from sexual immorality, from things strangled, and from blood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Moses has had throughout many generations those who preach him in every city, being read in the synagogues every Sabbath." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then it pleased the apostles and elders, with the whole church, to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas, namely, Judas who was also named Barsabas, and Silas, leading men among the brethren. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They wrote this, letter by them: The apostles, the elders, and the brethren, To the brethren who are of the Gentiles in Antioch, Syria, and Cilicia: Greetings. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Since we have heard that some who went out from us have troubled you with words, unsettling your souls, saying, "You must be circumcised and keep the law" --to whom we gave no such commandment-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 it seemed good to us, being assembled with one accord, to send chosen men to you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 men who have risked their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We have therefore sent Judas and Silas, who will also report the same things by 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 word of mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For it seemed good to the Holy Spirit, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that you abstain from things offered to idols, from blood, from things strangled, and from sexual immorality. If you keep yourselves from these, you will do well. Farewell. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when they were sent off, they came to Antioch; and when they had gathered the multitude together, they delivered the letter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they had read it, they rejoiced over its encouragement.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now Judas and Silas, themselves being prophets also, exhorted and strengthened 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the brethren with many words. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And after they had stayed there for a time, they were sent back with greetings from the brethren to the apostles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 However, it seemed good to Silas to remain there.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Paul and Barnabas also remained in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the Lord, with many others also. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then after some days Paul said to Barnabas, "Let us now go back and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the Lord, and see how they are doing." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now Barnabas was determined to take with them John called Mark. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Paul insisted that they should not take with them the one who had departed from them in Pamphylia, and had not gone with them to the work. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the contention became so sharp that they parted from one another. And so Barnabas took Mark and sailed to Cyprus; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but Paul chose Silas and departed, being commended by the brethren to the grace of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he went through Syria and Cilicia, strengthening the churches.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 16
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then he came to Derbe and Lystra. And behold, a certain disciple was there, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 named Timothy, the son of a certain Jewish woman who believed, but his father was Greek. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He was well spoken of by the brethren who were at Lystra and Iconium. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Paul wanted to have him go on with him. And he took him and circumcised him because of the Jews who were in that region, for they all knew that his father was Greek. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And as they went through the cities, they delivered to them the decrees to keep, which were determined by the apostles and elders at Jerusalem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the churches were strengthened in the faith, and increased in number daily. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when they had gone through Phrygia and the region of Galatia, they were 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 forbidden by the Holy Spirit to preach the word in Asia. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 After they had come to Mysia, they tried to go into Bithynia, but the Spirit did not permit them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So passing by Mysia, they came down to Troas.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And a vision appeared to Paul in the night. A man of Macedonia stood and pleaded 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 with him, saying, "Come over to Macedonia and help us." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now after he had seen the vision, immediately we sought to go to Macedonia, concluding that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, sailing from Troas, we ran a straight course to Samothrace, and the next day came to Neapolis, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and from there to Philippi, which is the foremost city of that part of Macedonia, a colony. And we were staying in that city for some days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And on the Sabbath day we went out of the city to the riverside, where prayer was customarily made; and we sat down and spoke to the women who met there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now a certain woman named Lydia heard us. She was a seller of purple from the city of Thyatira, who worshiped God. The Lord opened her heart to heed the things spoken by Paul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when she and her household were baptized, she begged us, saying, "If you have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come to my house and stay." So she persuaded us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now it happened, as we went to prayer, that a certain slave girl possessed with a spirit of divination met us, who brought her masters much profit by fortune-telling. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This girl followed Paul and us, and cried out, saying, "These men are the servants of the Most High God, who proclaim to us the way of salvation." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And this she did for many days. But Paul, greatly annoyed, turned and said to the spirit, "I command you in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her." And he came out that very hour. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when her masters saw that their hope of profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to the authorities. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they brought them to the magistrates, and said, "These men, being Jews, exceedingly trouble our city; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and they teach customs which are not lawful for us, being Romans, to receive or observe." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the multitude rose up together against them; and the magistrates tore off their clothes and commanded them to be beaten with rods. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they had laid many stripes on them, they threw them into prison, commanding the jailer to keep them securely. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Having received such a charge, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But at midnight Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken; and immediately all the doors were opened and everyone's chains were loosed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the keeper of the prison, awaking from sleep and seeing the prison doors open, supposing the prisoners had fled, drew his sword and was about to kill himself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Paul called with a loud voice, saying, "Do yourself no harm, for we are all here." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he called for a light, ran in, and fell down trembling before Paul and Silas. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he brought them out and said, "Sirs, what must I do to be saved?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So they said, "Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes. And 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 immediately he and all his family were baptized. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when he had brought them into his house, he set food before them; and he rejoiced, having believed in God with all his household. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when it was day, the magistrates sent the officers, saying, "Let those men go." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the keeper of the prison reported these words to Paul, saying, "The magistrates 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 have sent to let you go. Now therefore depart, and go in peace." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Paul said to them, "They have beaten us openly, uncondemned Romans, and have thrown us into prison. And now do they put us out secretly? No indeed! Let them come themselves and get us out." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the officers told these words to the magistrates, and they were afraid when they heard that they were Romans. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they came and pleaded with them and brought them out, and asked them to depart from the city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So they went out of the prison and entered the house of Lydia; and when they had seen the brethren, they encouraged them and departed. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 17
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul, as his custom was, went in to them, and for three Sabbaths reasoned with them from the Scriptures, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 explaining and demonstrating that the Christ had to suffer and rise again from the dead, and saying, "This Jesus whom I preach to you is the Christ." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And some of them were persuaded; and a great multitude of the devout Greeks, and not a few of the leading women, joined Paul and Silas. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the Jews who were not persuaded, becoming envious, took some of the evil men from the marketplace, and gathering a mob, set all the city in an uproar and attacked the house of Jason, and sought to bring them out to the people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when they did not find them, they dragged Jason and some brethren to the rulers of the city, crying out, "These who have turned the world upside down have come here too. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Jason has harbored them, and these are all acting contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying there is another king--Jesus." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they troubled the crowd and the rulers of the city when they heard these things. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when they had taken security from Jason and the rest, they let them go. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the brethren immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea. When they arrived, they went into the synagogue of the Jews. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 These were more fair-minded than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness, and searched the Scriptures daily to find out whether these things were so. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore many of them believed, and also not a few of the Greeks, prominent women as well as men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when the Jews from Thessalonica learned that the word of God was preached by Paul at Berea, they came there also and stirred up the crowds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then immediately the brethren sent Paul away, to go to the sea; but both Silas and Timothy remained there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So those who conducted Paul brought him to Athens; and receiving a command for Silas and Timothy to come to him with all speed, they departed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was provoked within him when he saw that the city was given over to idols. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and with the Gentile worshipers, and in the marketplace daily with those who happened to be there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then certain Epicurean and Stoic philosophers encountered him. And some said, "What does this babbler want to say?" Others said, "He seems to be a proclaimer of foreign gods," because he preached to them Jesus and the resurrection. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they took him and brought him to the Areopagus, saying, "May we know what this new doctrine is of which you speak? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you are bringing some strange things to our ears. Therefore we want to know what these things mean." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For all the Athenians and the foreigners who were there spent their time in nothing else but either to tell or to hear some new thing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul stood in the midst of the Areopagus and said, "Men of Athens, I perceive that in all things you are very religious; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for as I was passing through and considering the objects of your worship, I even found an altar with this inscription: TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Therefore, the One whom you worship without knowing, Him I proclaim to you: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God, who made the world and everything in it, since He is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nor is He worshiped with men's hands, as though He needed anything, since He gives to all life, breath, and all things. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on all the face of the earth, and has determined their preappointed times and the boundaries of their dwellings, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 so that they should seek the Lord, in the hope that they might grope for Him and find Him, though He is not far from each one of us; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for in Him we live and move and have our being, as also some of your own poets have said, "For we are also His offspring.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, since we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Divine Nature is like gold or silver or stone, something shaped by art and man's devising. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Truly, these times of ignorance God overlooked, but now commands all men everywhere to repent, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 because He has appointed a day on which He will judge the world in righteousness by the Man whom He has ordained. He has given assurance of this to all by raising Him from the dead." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked, while others said, "We will hear you again on this matter." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Paul departed from among them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 However, some men joined him and believed, among them Dionysius the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Areopagite, a woman named Damaris, and others with them. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 18
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 After these things Paul departed from Athens and went to Corinth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, who had recently come from Italy with his wife Priscilla (because Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome); and he came to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So, because he was of the same trade, he stayed with them and worked; for by occupation they were tentmakers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath, and persuaded both Jews and Greeks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When Silas and Timothy had come from Macedonia, Paul was compelled by the Spirit, and testified to the Jews that Jesus is the Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when they opposed him and blasphemed, he shook his garments and said to them, "Your blood be upon your own heads; I am clean. From now on I will go to the Gentiles." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he departed from there and entered the house of a certain man named Justus, one who worshiped God, whose house was next door to the synagogue. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Crispus, the ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his household. And many of the Corinthians, hearing, believed and were baptized. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now the Lord spoke to Paul in the night by a vision, "Do not be afraid, but speak, and do not keep silent; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for I am with you, and no one will attack you to hurt you; for I have many people in this city." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When Gallio was proconsul of Achaia, the Jews with one accord rose up against Paul and brought him to the judgment seat, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying, "This fellow persuades men to worship God contrary to the law." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when Paul was about to open his mouth, Gallio said to the Jews, "If it were a matter of wrongdoing or wicked crimes, O Jews, there would be reason why I should bear with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if it is a question of words and names and your own law, look to it yourselves; for I do not want to be a judge of such matters." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he drove them from the judgment seat.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the ruler of the synagogue, and beat him 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 before the judgment seat. But Gallio took no notice of these things. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Paul still remained a good while. Then he took leave of the brethren and sailed for Syria, and Priscilla and Aquila were with him. He had his hair cut off at Cenchrea, for he had taken a vow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he came to Ephesus, and left them there; but he himself entered the synagogue and reasoned with the Jews. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they asked him to stay a longer time with them, he did not consent,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but took leave of them, saying, "I must by all means keep this coming feast in 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Jerusalem; but I will return again to you, God willing." And he sailed from Ephesus. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he had landed at Caesarea, and gone up and greeted the church, he went down to Antioch. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 After he had spent some time there, he departed and went over the region of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man and mighty in the Scriptures, came to Ephesus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This man had been instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in spirit, he spoke and taught accurately the things of the Lord, though he knew only the baptism of John. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he began to speak boldly in the synagogue. When Aquila and Priscilla heard him, they took him aside and explained to him the way of God more accurately. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he desired to cross to Achaia, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him; and when he arrived, he greatly helped those who had believed through grace; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for he vigorously refuted the Jews publicly, showing from the Scriptures that Jesus is the Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 19
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 And it happened, while Apollos was at Corinth, that Paul, having passed through the upper regions, came to Ephesus. And finding some disciples 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 he said to them, "Did you receive the Holy Spirit when you believed?" So they said to him, "We have not so much as heard whether there is a Holy Spirit." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he said to them, "Into what then were you baptized?" So they said, "Into John's baptism." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul said, "John indeed baptized with a baptism of repentance, saying to the people that they should believe on Him who would come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when Paul had laid hands on them, the Holy Spirit came upon them, and they 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 spoke with tongues and prophesied. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now the men were about twelve in all. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he went into the synagogue and spoke boldly for three months, reasoning and persuading concerning the things of the kingdom of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when some were hardened and did not believe, but spoke evil of the Way before the multitude, he departed from them and withdrew the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And this continued for two years, so that all who dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now God worked unusual miracles by the hands of Paul,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 so that even handkerchiefs or aprons were brought from his body to the sick, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the diseases left them and the evil spirits went out of them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then some of the itinerant Jewish exorcists took it upon themselves to call the name of the Lord Jesus over those who had evil spirits, saying, "We exorcise you by the Jesus whom Paul preaches." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also there were seven sons of Sceva, a Jewish chief priest, who did so.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the evil spirit answered and said, "Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 you?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them, overpowered them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This became known both to all Jews and Greeks dwelling in Ephesus; and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And many who had believed came confessing and telling their deeds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also, many of those who had practiced magic brought their books together and burned them in the sight of all. And they counted up the value of them, and it totaled fifty thousand pieces of silver. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the word of the Lord grew mightily and prevailed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When these things were accomplished, Paul purposed in the Spirit, when he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem, saying, "After I have been there, I must also see Rome." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he sent into Macedonia two of those who ministered to him, Timothy and Erastus, but he himself stayed in Asia for a time. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And about that time there arose a great commotion about the Way.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, who made silver shrines of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Diana, brought no small profit to the craftsmen. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He called them together with the workers of similar occupation, and said: "Men, you know that we have our prosperity by this trade. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Moreover you see and hear that not only at Ephesus, but throughout almost all Asia, this Paul has persuaded and turned away many people, saying that they are not gods which are made with hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So not only is this trade of ours in danger of falling into disrepute, but also the temple of the great goddess Diana may be despised and her magnificence destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worship." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when they heard this, they were full of wrath and cried out, saying, "Great is Diana of the Ephesians!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the whole city was filled with confusion, and rushed into the theater with one accord, having seized Gaius and Aristarchus, Macedonians, Paul's travel companions. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when Paul wanted to go in to the people, the disciples would not allow him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then some of the officials of Asia, who were his friends, sent to him pleading that he would not venture into the theater. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Some therefore cried one thing and some another, for the assembly was confused, and most of them did not know why they had come together. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they drew Alexander out of the multitude, the Jews putting him forward. And Alexander motioned with his hand, and wanted to make his defense to the people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when they found out that he was a Jew, all with one voice cried out for about two hours, "Great is Diana of the Ephesians!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when the city clerk had quieted the crowd, he said: "Men of Ephesus, what man is there who does not know that the city of the Ephesians is temple guardian of the great goddess Diana, and of the image which fell down from Zeus? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, since these things cannot be denied, you ought to be quiet and do nothing rashly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you have brought these men here who are neither robbers of temples nor blasphemers of your goddess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, if Demetrius and his fellow craftsmen have a case against anyone, the courts are open and there are proconsuls. Let them bring charges against one another. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if you have any other inquiry to make, it shall be determined in the lawful assembly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we are in danger of being called in question for today's uproar, there being no reason which we may give to account for this disorderly gathering." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he had said these things, he dismissed the assembly.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 20
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 After the uproar had ceased, Paul called the disciples to himself, embraced 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 them, and departed to go to Macedonia. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when he had gone over that region and encouraged them with many words, he came to Greece 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and stayed three months. And when the Jews plotted against him as he was about to sail to Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Sopater of Berea accompanied him to Asia--also Aristarchus and Secundus of the Thessalonians, and Gaius of Derbe, and Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus of Asia. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 These men, going ahead, waited for us at Troas.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But we sailed away from Philippi after the Days of Unleavened Bread, and in five 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 days joined them at Troas, where we stayed seven days. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now on the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul, ready to depart the next day, spoke to them and continued his message until midnight. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There were many lamps in the upper room where they were gathered together. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And in a window sat a certain young man named Eutychus, who was sinking into a deep sleep. He was overcome by sleep; and as Paul continued speaking, he fell down from the third story and was taken up dead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Paul went down, fell on him, and embracing him said, "Do not trouble yourselves, for his life is in him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when he had come up, had broken bread and eaten, and talked a long while, even till daybreak, he departed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they brought the young man in alive, and they were not a little comforted. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then we went ahead to the ship and sailed to Assos, there intending to take Paul 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 on board; for so he had given orders, intending himself to go on foot.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he met us at Assos, we took him on board and came to Mitylene. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We sailed from there, and the next day came opposite Chios. The following day we arrived at Samos and stayed at Trogyllium. The next day we came to Miletus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus, so that he would not have to spend time in Asia; for he was hurrying to be at Jerusalem, if possible, on the Day of Pentecost. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From Miletus he sent to Ephesus and called for the elders of the church. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they had come to him, he said to them: "You know, from the first day that I came to Asia, in what manner I always lived among you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 serving the Lord with all humility, with many tears and trials which happened to me by the plotting of the Jews; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 how I kept back nothing that was helpful, but proclaimed it to you, and taught you publicly and from house to house, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 testifying to Jews, and also to Greeks, repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And see, now I go bound in the spirit to Jerusalem, not knowing the things that will happen to me there, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 except that the Holy Spirit testifies in every city, saying that chains and tribulations await me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But none of these things move me; nor do I count my life dear to myself, so that I may finish my race with joy, and the ministry which I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "And indeed, now I know that you all, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, will see my face no more. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I have not shunned to declare to you the whole counsel of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore take heed to yourselves and to all the flock, among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which He purchased with His own blood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I know this, that after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also from among yourselves men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after themselves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore watch, and remember that for three years I did not cease to warn everyone night and day with tears. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "So now, brethren, I commend you to God and to the word of His grace, which is able to build you up and give you an inheritance among all those who are sanctified. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, you yourselves know that these hands have provided for my necessities, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 for those who were with me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have shown you in every way, by laboring like this, that you must support the weak. And remember the words of the Lord Jesus, that He said, "It is more blessed to give than to receive."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they all wept freely, and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 sorrowing most of all for the words which he spoke, that they would see his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 21
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now it came to pass, that when we had departed from them and set sail, running a straight course we came to Cos, the following day to Rhodes, and from 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 there to Patara.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And finding a ship sailing over to Phoenicia, we went aboard and set sail. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When we had sighted Cyprus, we passed it on the left, sailed to Syria, and landed at Tyre; for there the ship was to unload her cargo. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And finding disciples, we stayed there seven days. They told Paul through the Spirit not to go up to Jerusalem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When we had come to the end of those days, we departed and went on our way; and they all accompanied us, with wives and children, till we were out of the city. And we knelt down on the shore and prayed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When we had taken our leave of one another, we boarded the ship, and they returned home. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when we had finished our voyage from Tyre, we came to Ptolemais, greeted the brethren, and stayed with them one day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 On the next day we who were Paul's companions departed and came to Caesarea, and entered the house of Philip the evangelist, who was one of the seven, and stayed with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now this man had four virgin daughters who prophesied.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And as we stayed many days, a certain prophet named Agabus came down from 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Judea. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When he had come to us, he took Paul's belt, bound his own hands and feet, and said, "Thus says the Holy Spirit, "So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man who owns this belt, and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when we heard these things, both we and those from that place pleaded with him not to go up to Jerusalem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul answered, "What do you mean by weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, "The will of the Lord be done." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And after those days we packed and went up to Jerusalem.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also some of the disciples from Caesarea went with us and brought with them a 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 certain Mnason of Cyprus, an early disciple, with whom we were to lodge. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when we had come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 On the following day Paul went in with us to James, and all the elders were present. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When he had greeted them, he told in detail those things which God had done among the Gentiles through his ministry. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord. And they said to him, "You see, brother, how many myriads of Jews there are who have believed, and they are all zealous for the law; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but they have been informed about you that you teach all the Jews who are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise their children nor to walk according to the customs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What then? The assembly must certainly meet, for they will hear that you have come. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore do what we tell you: We have four men who have taken a vow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Take them and be purified with them, and pay their expenses so that they may shave their heads, and that all may know that those things of which they were informed concerning you are nothing, but that you yourself also walk orderly and keep the law. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But concerning the Gentiles who believe, we have written and decided that they should observe no such thing, except that they should keep themselves from things offered to idols, from blood, from things strangled, and from sexual immorality." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul took the men, and the next day, having been purified with them, entered the temple to announce the expiration of the days of purification, at which time an offering should be made for each one of them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews from Asia, seeing him in the temple, stirred up the whole crowd and laid hands on him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 crying out, "Men of Israel, help! This is the man who teaches all men everywhere against the people, the law, and this place; and furthermore he also brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 (For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.) 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And all the city was disturbed; and the people ran together, seized Paul, and dragged him out of the temple; and immediately the doors were shut. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now as they were seeking to kill him, news came to the commander of the garrison that all Jerusalem was in an uproar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down to them. And when they saw the commander and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the commander came near and took him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains; and he asked who he was and what he had done. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And some among the multitude cried one thing and some another. So when he could not ascertain the truth because of the tumult, he commanded him to be taken into the barracks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When he reached the stairs, he had to be carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the mob. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the multitude of the people followed after, crying out, "Away with him!"\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then as Paul was about to be led into the barracks, he said to the commander, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "May I speak to you?" He replied, "Can you speak Greek? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Are you not the Egyptian who some time ago stirred up a rebellion and led the four thousand assassins out into the wilderness?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Paul said, "I am a Jew from Tarsus, in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city; and I implore you, permit me to speak to the people." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when he had given him permission, Paul stood on the stairs and motioned with his hand to the people. And when there was a great silence, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 22
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "Brethren and fathers, hear my defense before you now."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they heard that he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, they kept all 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the more silent. Then he said: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I am indeed a Jew, born in Tarsus of Cilicia, but brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, taught according to the strictness of our fathers' law, and was zealous toward God as you all are today. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I persecuted this Way to the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 as also the high priest bears me witness, and all the council of the elders, from whom I also received letters to the brethren, and went to Damascus to bring in chains even those who were there to Jerusalem to be punished. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now it happened, as I journeyed and came near Damascus at about noon, suddenly a great light from heaven shone around me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I answered, "Who are You, Lord?' And He said to me, "I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "And those who were with me indeed saw the light and were afraid, but they did not hear the voice of Him who spoke to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I said, "What shall I do, Lord?' And the Lord said to me, "Arise and go into Damascus, and there you will be told all things which are appointed for you to do.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And since I could not see for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of those who were with me, I came into Damascus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Then a certain Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having a good testimony with all the Jews who dwelt there, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 came to me; and he stood and said to me, "Brother Saul, receive your sight.' And at that same hour I looked up at him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he said, "The God of our fathers has chosen you that you should know His will, and see the Just One, and hear the voice of His mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you will be His witness to all men of what you have seen and heard.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And now why are you waiting? Arise and be baptized, and wash away your sins, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 calling on the name of the Lord.' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now it happened, when I returned to Jerusalem and was praying in the temple, that I was in a trance 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and saw Him saying to me, "Make haste and get out of Jerusalem quickly, for they will not receive your testimony concerning Me.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I said, "Lord, they know that in every synagogue I imprisoned and beat those who believe on You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when the blood of Your martyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by consenting to his death, and guarding the clothes of those who were killing him.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then He said to me, "Depart, for I will send you far from here to the Gentiles."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they listened to him until this word, and then they raised their voices and said, "Away with such a fellow from the earth, for he is not fit to live!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then, as they cried out and tore off their clothes and threw dust into the air, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 the commander ordered him to be brought into the barracks, and said that he should be examined under scourging, so that he might know why they shouted so against him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said to the centurion who stood by, "Is it lawful for you to scourge a man who is a Roman, and uncondemned?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the centurion heard that, he went and told the commander, saying, "Take care what you do, for this man is a Roman." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the commander came and said to him, "Tell me, are you a Roman?" He said, "Yes." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The commander answered, "With a large sum I obtained this citizenship." And Paul said, "But I was born a citizen." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then immediately those who were about to examine him withdrew from him; and the commander was also afraid after he found out that he was a Roman, and because he had bound him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The next day, because he wanted to know for certain why he was accused by the Jews, he released him from his bonds, and commanded the chief priests and all their council to appear, and brought Paul down and set him before them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 23
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Paul, looking earnestly at the council, said, "Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the high priest Ananias commanded those who stood by him to strike him on the mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul said to him, "God will strike you, you whitewashed wall! For you sit to judge me according to the law, and do you command me to be struck contrary to the law?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And those who stood by said, "Do you revile God's high priest?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul said, "I did not know, brethren, that he was the high priest; for it is written, "You shall not speak evil of a ruler of your people."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when Paul perceived that one part were Sadducees and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, "Men and brethren, I am a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee; concerning the hope and resurrection of the dead I am being judged!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he had said this, a dissension arose between the Pharisees and the Sadducees; and the assembly was divided. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Sadducees say that there is no resurrection--and no angel or spirit; but the Pharisees confess both. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then there arose a loud outcry. And the scribes of the Pharisees' party arose and protested, saying, "We find no evil in this man; but if a spirit or an angel has spoken to him, let us not fight against God." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when there arose a great dissension, the commander, fearing lest Paul might be pulled to pieces by them, commanded the soldiers to go down and take him by force from among them, and bring him into the barracks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the following night the Lord stood by him and said, "Be of good cheer, Paul; for as you have testified for Me in Jerusalem, so you must also bear witness at Rome." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when it was day, some of the Jews banded together and bound themselves under an oath, saying that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now there were more than forty who had formed this conspiracy.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They came to the chief priests and elders, and said, "We have bound ourselves 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 under a great oath that we will eat nothing until we have killed Paul. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now you, therefore, together with the council, suggest to the commander that he be brought down to you tomorrow, as though you were going to make further inquiries concerning him; but we are ready to kill him before he comes near." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when Paul's sister's son heard of their ambush, he went and entered the barracks and told Paul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul called one of the centurions to him and said, "Take this young man to the commander, for he has something to tell him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he took him and brought him to the commander and said, "Paul the prisoner called me to him and asked me to bring this young man to you. He has something to say to you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the commander took him by the hand, went aside, and asked privately, "What is it that you have to tell me?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "The Jews have agreed to ask that you bring Paul down to the council tomorrow, as though they were going to inquire more fully about him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But do not yield to them, for more than forty of them lie in wait for him, men who have bound themselves by an oath that they will neither eat nor drink till they have killed him; and now they are ready, waiting for the promise from you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the commander let the young man depart, and commanded him, "Tell no one that you have revealed these things to me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he called for two centurions, saying, "Prepare two hundred soldiers, seventy horsemen, and two hundred spearmen to go to Caesarea at the third hour of the night; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and provide mounts to set Paul on, and bring him safely to Felix the governor." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He wrote a letter in the following manner: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Claudius Lysias, To the most excellent governor Felix: Greetings. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This man was seized by the Jews and was about to be killed by them. Coming with the troops I rescued him, having learned that he was a Roman. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when I wanted to know the reason they accused him, I brought him before their council. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I found out that he was accused concerning questions of their law, but had nothing charged against him deserving of death or chains. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when it was told me that the Jews lay in wait for the man, I sent him immediately to you, and also commanded his accusers to state before you the charges against him. Farewell. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the soldiers, as they were commanded, took Paul and brought him by night to Antipatris. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The next day they left the horsemen to go on with him, and returned to the barracks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they came to Caesarea and had delivered the letter to the governor, they also presented Paul to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when the governor had read it, he asked what province he was from. And when he understood that he was from Cilicia, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 he said, "I will hear you when your accusers also have come." And he commanded him to be kept in Herod's Praetorium. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 24
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now after five days Ananias the high priest came down with the elders and a certain orator named Tertullus. These gave evidence to the governor against Paul. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he was called upon, Tertullus began his accusation, saying: "Seeing that through you we enjoy great peace, and prosperity is being brought to this nation by your foresight, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 we accept it always and in all places, most noble Felix, with all thankfulness. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless, not to be tedious to you any further, I beg you to hear, by your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 courtesy, a few words from us. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we have found this man a plague, a creator of dissension among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He even tried to profane the temple, and we seized him, and wanted to judge him according to our law. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the commander Lysias came by and with great violence took him out of our hands, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 commanding his accusers to come to you. By examining him yourself you may ascertain all these things of which we accuse him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the Jews also assented, maintaining that these things were so. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul, after the governor had nodded to him to speak, answered: "Inasmuch as I know that you have been for many years a judge of this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 because you may ascertain that it is no more than twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they neither found me in the temple disputing with anyone nor inciting the crowd, either in the synagogues or in the city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nor can they prove the things of which they now accuse me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But this I confess to you, that according to the Way which they call a sect, so I worship the God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the Law and in the Prophets. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have hope in God, which they themselves also accept, that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This being so, I myself always strive to have a conscience without offense toward God and men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now after many years I came to bring alms and offerings to my nation,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 in the midst of which some Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, neither 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 with a mob nor with tumult.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They ought to have been here before you to object if they had anything against me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or else let those who are here themselves say if they found any wrongdoing in me while I stood before the council, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 unless it is for this one statement which I cried out, standing among them, "Concerning the resurrection of the dead I am being judged by you this day."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when Felix heard these things, having more accurate knowledge of the Way, he adjourned the proceedings and said, "When Lysias the commander comes down, I will make a decision on your case." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he commanded the centurion to keep Paul and to let him have liberty, and told him not to forbid any of his friends to provide for or visit him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And after some days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, he sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith in Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now as he reasoned about righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix was afraid and answered, "Go away for now; when I have a convenient time I will call for you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Meanwhile he also hoped that money would be given him by Paul, that he might release him. Therefore he sent for him more often and conversed with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But after two years Porcius Festus succeeded Felix; and Felix, wanting to do the Jews a favor, left Paul bound. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 25
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now when Festus had come to the province, after three days he went up from Caesarea to Jerusalem. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the high priest and the chief men of the Jews informed him against Paul; and they petitioned him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 asking a favor against him, that he would summon him to Jerusalem--while they lay in ambush along the road to kill him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Festus answered that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, and that he himself was going there shortly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore," he said, "let those who have authority among you go down with me and accuse this man, to see if there is any fault in him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he had remained among them more than ten days, he went down to Caesarea. And the next day, sitting on the judgment seat, he commanded Paul to be brought. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When he had come, the Jews who had come down from Jerusalem stood about and laid many serious complaints against Paul, which they could not prove, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 while he answered for himself, "Neither against the law of the Jews, nor against the temple, nor against Caesar have I offended in anything at all." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But Festus, wanting to do the Jews a favor, answered Paul and said, "Are you willing to go up to Jerusalem and there be judged before me concerning these things?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Paul said, "I stand at Caesar's judgment seat, where I ought to be judged. To the Jews I have done no wrong, as you very well know. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For if I am an offender, or have committed anything deserving of death, I do not object to dying; but if there is nothing in these things of which these men accuse me, no one can deliver me to them. I appeal to Caesar." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, "You have appealed to Caesar? To Caesar you shall go!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And after some days King Agrippa and Bernice came to Caesarea to greet Festus. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they had been there many days, Festus laid Paul's case before the king, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 saying: "There is a certain man left a prisoner by Felix, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 about whom the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me, when I was in Jerusalem, asking for a judgment against him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To them I answered, "It is not the custom of the Romans to deliver any man to destruction before the accused meets the accusers face to face, and has opportunity to answer for himself concerning the charge against him.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore when they had come together, without any delay, the next day I sat on the judgment seat and commanded the man to be brought in. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the accusers stood up, they brought no accusation against him of such things as I supposed, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but had some questions against him about their own religion and about a certain Jesus, who had died, whom Paul affirmed to be alive. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And because I was uncertain of such questions, I asked whether he was willing to go to Jerusalem and there be judged concerning these matters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when Paul appealed to be reserved for the decision of Augustus, I commanded him to be kept till I could send him to Caesar." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Agrippa said to Festus, "I also would like to hear the man myself." "Tomorrow," he said, "you shall hear him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the next day, when Agrippa and Bernice had come with great pomp, and had entered the auditorium with the commanders and the prominent men of the city, at Festus' command Paul was brought in. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Festus said: "King Agrippa and all the men who are here present with us, you see this man about whom the whole assembly of the Jews petitioned me, both at Jerusalem and here, crying out that he was not fit to live any longer. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when I found that he had committed nothing deserving of death, and that he himself had appealed to Augustus, I decided to send him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have nothing certain to write to my lord concerning him. Therefore I have brought him out before you, and especially before you, King Agrippa, so that after the examination has taken place I may have something to write. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For it seems to me unreasonable to send a prisoner and not to specify the charges against him." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 26
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Agrippa said to Paul, "You are permitted to speak for yourself." So Paul stretched out his hand and answered for himself: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I think myself happy, King Agrippa, because today I shall answer for myself before you concerning all the things of which I am accused by the Jews, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 especially because you are expert in all customs and questions which have to do with the Jews. Therefore I beg you to hear me patiently. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "My manner of life from my youth, which was spent from the beginning among my own nation at Jerusalem, all the Jews know. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They knew me from the first, if they were willing to testify, that according to the strictest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our fathers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To this promise our twelve tribes, earnestly serving God night and day, hope to attain. For this hope's sake, King Agrippa, I am accused by the Jews. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why should it be thought incredible by you that God raises the dead?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Indeed, I myself thought I must do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Nazareth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This I also did in Jerusalem, and many of the saints I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were put to death, I cast my vote against them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And I punished them often in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly enraged against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "While thus occupied, as I journeyed to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 at midday, O king, along the road I saw a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, shining around me and those who journeyed with me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when we all had fallen to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me and saying in the Hebrew language, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting Me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I said, "Who are You, Lord?' And He said, "I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But rise and stand on your feet; for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to make you a minister and a witness both of the things which you have seen and of the things which I will yet reveal to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will deliver you from the Jewish people, as well as from the Gentiles, to whom I now send you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to open their eyes, in order to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in Me.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore, King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but declared first to those in Damascus and in Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea, and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent, turn to God, and do works befitting repentance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For these reasons the Jews seized me in the temple and tried to kill me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, having obtained help from God, to this day I stand, witnessing both to small and great, saying no other things than those which the prophets and Moses said would come-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that the Christ would suffer, that He would be the first to rise from the dead, and would proclaim light to the Jewish people and to the Gentiles." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now as he thus made his defense, Festus said with a loud voice, "Paul, you are beside yourself! Much learning is driving you mad!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he said, "I am not mad, most noble Festus, but speak the words of truth and reason. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the king, before whom I also speak freely, knows these things; for I am convinced that none of these things escapes his attention, since this thing was not done in a corner. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you do believe." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Agrippa said to Paul, "You almost persuade me to become a Christian." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Paul said, "I would to God that not only you, but also all who hear me today, might become both almost and altogether such as I am, except for these chains." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When he had said these things, the king stood up, as well as the governor and Bernice and those who sat with them; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and when they had gone aside, they talked among themselves, saying, "This man is doing nothing deserving of death or chains." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Agrippa said to Festus, "This man might have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 27
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 And when it was decided that we should sail to Italy, they delivered Paul and some other prisoners to one named Julius, a centurion of the Augustan Regiment. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So, entering a ship of Adramyttium, we put to sea, meaning to sail along the coasts of Asia. Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, was with us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the next day we landed at Sidon. And Julius treated Paul kindly and gave him liberty to go to his friends and receive care. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When we had put to sea from there, we sailed under the shelter of Cyprus, because the winds were contrary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when we had sailed over the sea which is off Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of Lycia. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There the centurion found an Alexandrian ship sailing to Italy, and he put us on board. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When we had sailed slowly many days, and arrived with difficulty off Cnidus, the wind not permitting us to proceed, we sailed under the shelter of Crete off Salmone. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Passing it with difficulty, we came to a place called Fair Havens, near the city of Lasea. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when much time had been spent, and sailing was now dangerous because the Fast was already over, Paul advised them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying, "Men, I perceive that this voyage will end with disaster and much loss, not only of the cargo and ship, but also our lives." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless the centurion was more persuaded by the helmsman and the owner of the ship than by the things spoken by Paul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And because the harbor was not suitable to winter in, the majority advised to set sail from there also, if by any means they could reach Phoenix, a harbor of Crete opening toward the southwest and northwest, and winter there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the south wind blew softly, supposing that they had obtained their desire, putting out to sea, they sailed close by Crete. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But not long after, a tempestuous head wind arose, called Euroclydon.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when the ship was caught, and could not head into the wind, we let her drive. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And running under the shelter of an island called Clauda, we secured the skiff with difficulty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they had taken it on board, they used cables to undergird the ship; and fearing lest they should run aground on the Syrtis Sands, they struck sail and so were driven. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And because we were exceedingly tempest-tossed, the next day they lightened the ship. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 On the third day we threw the ship's tackle overboard with our own hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when neither sun nor stars appeared for many days, and no small tempest beat on us, all hope that we would be saved was finally given up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But after long abstinence from food, then Paul stood in the midst of them and said, "Men, you should have listened to me, and not have sailed from Crete and incurred this disaster and loss. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And now I urge you to take heart, for there will be no loss of life among you, but only of the ship. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For there stood by me this night an angel of the God to whom I belong and whom I serve, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying, "Do not be afraid, Paul; you must be brought before Caesar; and indeed God has granted you all those who sail with you.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore take heart, men, for I believe God that it will be just as it was told me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 However, we must run aground on a certain island." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when the fourteenth night had come, as we were driven up and down in the Adriatic Sea, about midnight the sailors sensed that they were drawing near some land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they took soundings and found it to be twenty fathoms; and when they had gone a little farther, they took soundings again and found it to be fifteen fathoms. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then, fearing lest we should run aground on the rocks, they dropped four anchors from the stern, and prayed for day to come. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And as the sailors were seeking to escape from the ship, when they had let down the skiff into the sea, under pretense of putting out anchors from the prow, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Paul said to the centurion and the soldiers, "Unless these men stay in the ship, you cannot be saved." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the soldiers cut away the ropes of the skiff and let it fall off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And as day was about to dawn, Paul implored them all to take food, saying, "Today is the fourteenth day you have waited and continued without food, and eaten nothing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I urge you to take nourishment, for this is for your survival, since not a hair will fall from the head of any of you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he had said these things, he took bread and gave thanks to God in the presence of them all; and when he had broken it he began to eat. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they were all encouraged, and also took food themselves. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And in all we were two hundred and seventy-six persons on the ship. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship and threw out the wheat into the sea. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When it was day, they did not recognize the land; but they observed a bay with a beach, onto which they planned to run the ship if possible. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they let go the anchors and left them in the sea, meanwhile loosing the rudder ropes; and they hoisted the mainsail to the wind and made for shore. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But striking a place where two seas met, they ran the ship aground; and the prow stuck fast and remained immovable, but the stern was being broken up by the violence of the waves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the soldiers' plan was to kill the prisoners, lest any of them should swim away and escape. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the centurion, wanting to save Paul, kept them from their purpose, and commanded that those who could swim should jump overboard first and get to land, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and the rest, some on boards and some on parts of the ship. And so it was that they all escaped safely to land. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 28
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Now when they had escaped, they then found out that the island was called Malta. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the natives showed us unusual kindness; for they kindled a fire and made us all welcome, because of the rain that was falling and because of the cold. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks and laid them on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat, and fastened on his hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when the natives saw the creature hanging from his hand, they said to one another, "No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he has escaped the sea, yet justice does not allow to live." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he shook off the creature into the fire and suffered no harm. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 However, they were expecting that he would swell up or suddenly fall down dead. But after they had looked for a long time and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds and said that he was a god. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In that region there was an estate of the leading citizen of the island, whose name was Publius, who received us and entertained us courteously for three days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And it happened that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever and dysentery. Paul went in to him and prayed, and he laid his hands on him and healed him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when this was done, the rest of those on the island who had diseases also came and were healed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They also honored us in many ways; and when we departed, they provided such things as were necessary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 After three months we sailed in an Alexandrian ship whose figurehead was the Twin Brothers, which had wintered at the island. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And landing at Syracuse, we stayed three days.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From there we circled round and reached Rhegium. And after one day the south 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wind blew; and the next day we came to Puteoli, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 where we found brethren, and were invited to stay with them seven days. And so we went toward Rome. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And from there, when the brethren heard about us, they came to meet us as far as Appii Forum and Three Inns. When Paul saw them, he thanked God and took courage. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain of the guard; but Paul was permitted to dwell by himself with the soldier who guarded him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass after three days that Paul called the leaders of the Jews together. So when they had come together, he said to them: "Men and brethren, though I have done nothing against our people or the customs of our fathers, yet I was delivered as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who, when they had examined me, wanted to let me go, because there was no cause for putting me to death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when the Jews spoke against it, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, not that I had anything of which to accuse my nation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this reason therefore I have called for you, to see you and speak with you, because for the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they said to him, "We neither received letters from Judea concerning you, nor have any of the brethren who came reported or spoken any evil of you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But we desire to hear from you what you think; for concerning this sect, we know that it is spoken against everywhere." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when they had appointed him a day, many came to him at his lodging, to whom he explained and solemnly testified of the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus from both the Law of Moses and the Prophets, from morning till evening. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And some were persuaded by the things which were spoken, and some disbelieved. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So when they did not agree among themselves, they departed after Paul had said 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 one word: "The Holy Spirit spoke rightly through Isaiah the prophet to our fathers, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 saying, "Go to this people and say: "Hearing you will hear, and shall not understand; And seeing you will see, and not perceive; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the hearts of this people have grown dull. Their ears are hard of hearing, And their eyes they have closed, Lest they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears, Lest they should understand with their hearts and turn, So that I should heal them."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore let it be known to you that the salvation of God has been sent to the Gentiles, and they will hear it!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when he had said these words, the Jews departed and had a great dispute among themselves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Paul dwelt two whole years in his own rented house, and received all who came to him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 preaching the kingdom of God and teaching the things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence, no one forbidding him. 
\f0\fs24 \
}