{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red190\green0\blue4;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c39608\c80000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c80000\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Colossians 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ who are in Colosse: Grace to you and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We give thanks to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus and of your love for all the saints; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 because of the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, of which you heard before in 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the word of the truth of the gospel, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 which has come to you, as it has also in all the world, and is bringing forth fruit, as it is also among you since the day you heard and knew the grace of God in truth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 as you also learned from Epaphras, our dear fellow servant, who is a faithful minister of Christ on your behalf, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who also declared to us your love in the Spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this reason we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to ask that you may be filled with the knowledge of His will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that you may walk worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing Him, being fruitful in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 strengthened with all might, according to His glorious power, for all patience and longsuffering with joy; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 giving thanks to the Father who has qualified us to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in the light. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has delivered us from the power of darkness and conveyed us into the kingdom of the Son of His love, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 in whom we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn over all creation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For by Him all things were created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created through Him and for Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He is before all things, and in Him all things consist.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the dead, that in all things He may have the preeminence.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For it pleased the Father that in Him all the fullness should dwell, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and by Him to reconcile all things to Himself, by Him, whether things on earth or things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of His cross. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And you, who once were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now He has reconciled 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 in the body of His flesh through death, to present you holy, and blameless, and above reproach in His sight-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 if indeed you continue in the faith, grounded and steadfast, and are not moved away from the hope of the gospel which you heard, which was preached to every creature under heaven, of which I, Paul, became a minister. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up in my flesh what is lacking in the afflictions of Christ, for the sake of His body, which is the church, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 of which I became a minister according to the stewardship from God which was given to me for you, to fulfill the word of God, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 the mystery which has been hidden from ages and from generations, but now has been revealed to His saints. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To them God willed to make known what are the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles: which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Him we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom, that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To this end I also labor, striving according to His working which works in me mightily. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 2
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 For I want you to know what a great conflict I have for you and those in Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, and attaining to all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the knowledge of the mystery of God, both of the Father and of Christ, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now this I say lest anyone should deceive you with persuasive words. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For though I am absent in the flesh, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in Him,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 rooted and built up in Him and established in the faith, as you have been taught, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 abounding in it with thanksgiving. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Beware lest anyone cheat you through philosophy and empty deceit, according to the tradition of men, according to the basic principles of the world, and not according to Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For in Him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead bodily;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and you are complete in Him, who is the head of all principality and power. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In Him you were also circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh, by the circumcision of Christ, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 buried with Him in baptism, in which you also were raised with Him through faith in the working of God, who raised Him from the dead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And you, being dead in your trespasses and the uncircumcision of your flesh, He has made alive together with Him, having forgiven you all trespasses, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 having wiped out the handwriting of requirements that was against us, which was contrary to us. And He has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Having disarmed principalities and powers, He made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them in it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So let no one judge you in food or in drink, or regarding a festival or a new moon or sabbaths, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 which are a shadow of things to come, but the substance is of Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let no one cheat you of your reward, taking delight in false humility and worship of angels, intruding into those things which he has not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and not holding fast to the Head, from whom all the body, nourished and knit together by joints and ligaments, grows with the increase that is from God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, if you died with Christ from the basic principles of the world, why, as though living in the world, do you subject yourselves to regulations-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle,"\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 which all concern things which perish with the using--according to the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 commandments and doctrines of men? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 These things indeed have an appearance of wisdom in self-imposed religion, false humility, and neglect of the body, but are of no value against the indulgence of the flesh. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 3
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 If then you were raised with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ is, sitting at the right hand of God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Set your mind on things above, not on things on the earth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When Christ who is our life appears, then you also will appear with Him in glory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore put to death your members which are on the earth: fornication, uncleanness, passion, evil desire, and covetousness, which is idolatry. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because of these things the wrath of God is coming upon the sons of disobedience, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 in which you yourselves once walked when you lived in them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But now you yourselves are to put off all these: anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy language out of your mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not lie to one another, since you have put off the old man with his deeds,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and have put on the new man who is renewed in knowledge according to the image 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of Him who created him, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcised nor uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave nor free, but Christ is all and in all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on tender mercies, kindness, humility, meekness, longsuffering; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 bearing with one another, and forgiving one another, if anyone has a complaint against another; even as Christ forgave you, so you also must do. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But above all these things put on love, which is the bond of perfection.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you were called in one 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 body; and be thankful. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God the Father through Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wives, submit to your own husbands, as is fitting in the Lord.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Husbands, love your wives and do not be bitter toward them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing to the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Fathers, do not provoke your children, lest they become discouraged. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bondservants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh, not with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 eyeservice, as men-pleasers, but in sincerity of heart, fearing God. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And whatever you do, do it heartily, as to the Lord and not to men, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 knowing that from the Lord you will receive the reward of the inheritance; for you serve the Lord Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he who does wrong will be repaid for what he has done, and there is no partiality. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 4
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Masters, give your bondservants what is just and fair, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Continue earnestly in prayer, being vigilant in it with thanksgiving;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 meanwhile praying also for us, that God would open to us a door for the word, to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in chains, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Walk in wisdom toward those who are outside, redeeming the time. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let your speech always be with grace, seasoned with salt, that you may know how you ought to answer each one. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Tychicus, a beloved brother, faithful minister, and fellow servant in the Lord, will tell you all the news about me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am sending him to you for this very purpose, that he may know your circumstances and comfort your hearts, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 with Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They will make known to you all things which are happening here. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Aristarchus my fellow prisoner greets you, with Mark the cousin of Barnabas (about whom you received instructions: if he comes to you, welcome him), 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and Jesus who is called Justus. These are my only fellow workers for the kingdom of God who are of the circumcision; they have proved to be a comfort to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Epaphras, who is one of you, a bondservant of Christ, greets you, always laboring fervently for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I bear him witness that he has a great zeal for you, and those who are in Laodicea, and those in Hierapolis. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Luke the beloved physician and Demas greet you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Greet the brethren who are in Laodicea, and Nymphas and the church that is in his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 house. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when this epistle is read among you, see that it is read also in the church of the Laodiceans, and that you likewise read the epistle from Laodicea. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And say to Archippus, "Take heed to the ministry which you have received in the Lord, that you may fulfill it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This salutation by my own hand--Paul. Remember my chains. Grace be with you. Amen. 
\f0\fs24 \
}