{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red190\green0\blue4;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c15294\c30196\c75294;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c74510\c0\c1569;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 Deuteronomy 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 1
\b0\fs26 \cf3 These are the words which Moses spoke to all Israel on this side of the Jordan in the wilderness, in the plain opposite Suph, between Paran, Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 and Dizahab. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 It is eleven days' journey from Horeb by way of Mount Seir to Kadesh Barnea. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it came to pass in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moses spoke to the children of Israel according to all that the LORD had given him as commandments to them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 after he had killed Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and Og king of Bashan, who dwelt at Ashtaroth in Edrei. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 On this side of the Jordan in the land of Moab, Moses began to explain this law, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The LORD our God spoke to us in Horeb, saying: "You have dwelt long enough at this mountain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Turn and take your journey, and go to the mountains of the Amorites, to all the neighboring places in the plain, in the mountains and in the lowland, in the South and on the seacoast, to the land of the Canaanites and to Lebanon, as far as the great river, the River Euphrates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 See, I have set the land before you; go in and possess the land which the LORD swore to your fathers--to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob--to give to them and their descendants after them.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And I spoke to you at that time, saying: "I alone am not able to bear you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD your God has multiplied you, and here you are today, as the stars of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 heaven in multitude. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 May the LORD God of your fathers make you a thousand times more numerous than you are, and bless you as He has promised you! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 How can I alone bear your problems and your burdens and your complaints? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Choose wise, understanding, and knowledgeable men from among your tribes, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 I will make them heads over you.' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you answered me and said, "The thing which you have told us to do is good.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So I took the heads of your tribes, wise and knowledgeable men, and made them heads over you, leaders of thousands, leaders of hundreds, leaders of fifties, leaders of tens, and officers for your tribes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then I commanded your judges at that time, saying, "Hear the cases between your brethren, and judge righteously between a man and his brother or the stranger who is with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not show partiality in judgment; you shall hear the small as well as the great; you shall not be afraid in any man's presence, for the judgment is God's. The case that is too hard for you, bring to me, and I will hear it.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I commanded you at that time all the things which you should do. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So we departed from Horeb, and went through all that great and terrible wilderness which you saw on the way to the mountains of the Amorites, as the LORD our God had commanded us. Then we came to Kadesh Barnea. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I said to you, "You have come to the mountains of the Amorites, which the LORD our God is giving us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Look, the LORD your God has set the land before you; go up and possess it, as the LORD God of your fathers has spoken to you; do not fear or be discouraged.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And every one of you came near to me and said, "Let us send men before us, and let them search out the land for us, and bring back word to us of the way by which we should go up, and of the cities into which we shall come.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The plan pleased me well; so I took twelve of your men, one man from each tribe. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they departed and went up into the mountains, and came to the Valley of Eshcol, and spied it out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They also took some of the fruit of the land in their hands and brought it down to us; and they brought back word to us, saying, "It is a good land which the LORD our God is giving us.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Nevertheless you would not go up, but rebelled against the command of the LORD your God; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and you complained in your tents, and said, "Because the LORD hates us, He has brought us out of the land of Egypt to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Where can we go up? Our brethren have discouraged our hearts, saying, "The people are greater and taller than we; the cities are great and fortified up to heaven; moreover we have seen the sons of the Anakim there."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then I said to you, "Do not be terrified, or afraid of them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD your God, who goes before you, He will fight for you, according to all He 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 did for you in Egypt before your eyes, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and in the wilderness where you saw how the LORD your God carried you, as a man carries his son, in all the way that you went until you came to this place.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Yet, for all that, you did not believe the LORD your God,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 who went in the way before you to search out a place for you to pitch your tents, to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 show you the way you should go, in the fire by night and in the cloud by day. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And the LORD heard the sound of your words, and was angry, and took an oath, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Surely not one of these men of this evil generation shall see that good land of which I swore to give to your fathers, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 except Caleb the son of Jephunneh; he shall see it, and to him and his children I am giving the land on which he walked, because he wholly followed the LORD.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD was also angry with me for your sakes, saying, "Even you shall not go in there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Joshua the son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall go in there. Encourage him, for he shall cause Israel to inherit it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Moreover your little ones and your children, who you say will be victims, who today have no knowledge of good and evil, they shall go in there; to them I will give it, and they shall possess it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But as for you, turn and take your journey into the wilderness by the Way of the Red Sea.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then you answered and said to me, "We have sinned against the LORD; we will go up and fight, just as the LORD our God commanded us.' And when everyone of you had girded on his weapons of war, you were ready to go up into the mountain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And the LORD said to me, "Tell them, "Do not go up nor fight, for I am not among you; lest you be defeated before your enemies."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So I spoke to you; yet you would not listen, but rebelled against the command of the LORD, and presumptuously went up into the mountain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the Amorites who dwelt in that mountain came out against you and chased you as bees do, and drove you back from Seir to Hormah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then you returned and wept before the LORD, but the LORD would not listen to your voice nor give ear to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So you remained in Kadesh many days, according to the days that you spent there. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 2
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Then we turned and journeyed into the wilderness of the Way of the Red Sea, as 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the LORD spoke to me, and we skirted Mount Seir for many days. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And the LORD spoke to me, saying:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You have skirted this mountain long enough; turn northward. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And command the people, saying, "You are about to pass through the territory of your brethren, the descendants of Esau, who live in Seir; and they will be afraid of you. Therefore watch yourselves carefully. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Do not meddle with them, for I will not give you any of their land, no, not so much as one footstep, because I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall buy food from them with money, that you may eat; and you shall also buy water from them with money, that you may drink. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "For the LORD your God has blessed you in all the work of your hand. He knows your trudging through this great wilderness. These forty years the LORD your God has been with you; you have lacked nothing."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And when we passed beyond our brethren, the descendants of Esau who dwell in Seir, away from the road of the plain, away from Elath and Ezion Geber, we turned and passed by way of the Wilderness of Moab. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD said to me, "Do not harass Moab, nor contend with them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land as a possession, because I have given Ar to the descendants of Lot as a possession."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 (The Emim had dwelt there in times past, a people as great and numerous and tall as the Anakim. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They were also regarded as giants, like the Anakim, but the Moabites call them Emim. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The Horites formerly dwelt in Seir, but the descendants of Esau dispossessed them and destroyed them from before them, and dwelt in their place, just as Israel did to the land of their possession which the LORD gave them.) 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 ""Now rise and cross over the Valley of the Zered.' So we crossed over the Valley of the Zered. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the time we took to come from Kadesh Barnea until we crossed over the Valley of the Zered was thirty-eight years, until all the generation of the men of war was consumed from the midst of the camp, just as the LORD had sworn to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For indeed the hand of the LORD was against them, to destroy them from the midst of the camp until they were consumed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So it was, when all the men of war had finally perished from among the people, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that the LORD spoke to me, saying:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "This day you are to cross over at Ar, the boundary of Moab. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when you come near the people of Ammon, do not harass them or meddle with them, for I will not give you any of the land of the people of Ammon as a possession, because I have given it to the descendants of Lot as a possession."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 (That was also regarded as a land of giants; giants formerly dwelt there. But the Ammonites call them Zamzummim, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 a people as great and numerous and tall as the Anakim. But the LORD destroyed them before them, and they dispossessed them and dwelt in their place, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 just as He had done for the descendants of Esau, who dwelt in Seir, when He destroyed the Horites from before them. They dispossessed them and dwelt in their place, even to this day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the Avim, who dwelt in villages as far as Gaza--the Caphtorim, who came from Caphtor, destroyed them and dwelt in their place.) 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 ""Rise, take your journey, and cross over the River Arnon. Look, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land. Begin to possess it, and engage him in battle. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This day I will begin to put the dread and fear of you upon the nations under the whole heaven, who shall hear the report of you, and shall tremble and be in anguish because of you.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And I sent messengers from the Wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon king of Heshbon, with words of peace, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Let me pass through your land; I will keep strictly to the road, and I will turn neither to the right nor to the left. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall sell me food for money, that I may eat, and give me water for money, that I may drink; only let me pass through on foot, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 just as the descendants of Esau who dwell in Seir and the Moabites who dwell in Ar did for me, until I cross the Jordan to the land which the LORD our God is giving us.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "But Sihon king of Heshbon would not let us pass through, for the LORD your God hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate, that He might deliver him into your hand, as it is this day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And the LORD said to me, "See, I have begun to give Sihon and his land over to you. Begin to possess it, that you may inherit his land.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Sihon and all his people came out against us to fight at Jahaz. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD our God delivered him over to us; so we defeated him, his sons, and all his people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 We took all his cities at that time, and we utterly destroyed the men, women, and little ones of every city; we left none remaining. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 We took only the livestock as plunder for ourselves, with the spoil of the cities which we took. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 From Aroer, which is on the bank of the River Arnon, and from the city that is in the ravine, as far as Gilead, there was not one city too strong for us; the LORD our God delivered all to us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Only you did not go near the land of the people of Ammon--anywhere along the River Jabbok, or to the cities of the mountains, or wherever the LORD our God had forbidden us. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 3
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Then we turned and went up the road to Bashan; and Og king of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said to me, "Do not fear him, for I have delivered him and all his people and his land into your hand; you shall do to him as you did to Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So the LORD our God also delivered into our hands Og king of Bashan, with all his people, and we attacked him until he had no survivors remaining. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And we took all his cities at that time; there was not a city which we did not take from them: sixty cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 All these cities were fortified with high walls, gates, and bars, besides a great many rural towns. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And we utterly destroyed them, as we did to Sihon king of Heshbon, utterly destroying the men, women, and children of every city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But all the livestock and the spoil of the cities we took as booty for ourselves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And at that time we took the land from the hand of the two kings of the Amorites who were on this side of the Jordan, from the River Arnon to Mount Hermon 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 (the Sidonians call Hermon Sirion, and the Amorites call it Senir),\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 all the cities of the plain, all Gilead, and all Bashan, as far as Salcah and Edrei, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of the giants. Indeed his bedstead was an iron bedstead. (Is it not in Rabbah of the people of Ammon?) Nine cubits is its length and four cubits its width, according to the standard cubit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And this land, which we possessed at that time, from Aroer, which is by the River Arnon, and half the mountains of Gilead and its cities, I gave to the Reubenites and the Gadites. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, the kingdom of Og, I gave to half the tribe of Manasseh. (All the region of Argob, with all Bashan, was called the land of the giants. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Jair the son of Manasseh took all the region of Argob, as far as the border of the Geshurites and the Maachathites, and called Bashan after his own name, Havoth Jair, to this day.) 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Also I gave Gilead to Machir. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And to the Reubenites and the Gadites I gave from Gilead as far as the River Arnon, the middle of the river as the border, as far as the River Jabbok, the border of the people of Ammon; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the plain also, with the Jordan as the border, from Chinnereth as far as the east side of the Sea of the Arabah (the Salt Sea), below the slopes of Pisgah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then I commanded you at that time, saying: "The LORD your God has given you this land to possess. All you men of valor shall cross over armed before your brethren, the children of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But your wives, your little ones, and your livestock (I know that you have much livestock) shall stay in your cities which I have given you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 until the LORD has given rest to your brethren as to you, and they also possess the land which the LORD your God is giving them beyond the Jordan. Then each of you may return to his possession which I have given you.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, "Your eyes have seen all that the LORD your God has done to these two kings; so will the LORD do to all the kingdoms through which you pass. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You must not fear them, for the LORD your God Himself fights for you.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then I pleaded with the LORD at that time, saying: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "O Lord GOD, You have begun to show Your servant Your greatness and Your mighty hand, for what god is there in heaven or on earth who can do anything like Your works and Your mighty deeds? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I pray, let me cross over and see the good land beyond the Jordan, those pleasant mountains, and Lebanon.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "But the LORD was angry with me on your account, and would not listen to me. So the LORD said to me: "Enough of that! Speak no more to Me of this matter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Go up to the top of Pisgah, and lift your eyes toward the west, the north, the south, and the east; behold it with your eyes, for you shall not cross over this Jordan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But command Joshua, and encourage him and strengthen him; for he shall go over before this people, and he shall cause them to inherit the land which you will see.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So we stayed in the valley opposite Beth Peor.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 4
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Now, O Israel, listen to the statutes and the judgments which I teach you to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 observe, that you may live, and go in and possess the land which the LORD God of your fathers is giving you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not add to the word which I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the commandments of the LORD your God which I command you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your eyes have seen what the LORD did at Baal Peor; for the LORD your God has destroyed from among you all the men who followed Baal of Peor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But you who held fast to the LORD your God are alive today, every one of you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Surely I have taught you statutes and judgments, just as the LORD my God commanded me, that you should act according to them in the land which you go to possess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore be careful to observe them; for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the peoples who will hear all these statutes, and say, "Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "For what great nation is there that has God so near to it, as the LORD our God is to us, for whatever reason we may call upon Him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And what great nation is there that has such statutes and righteous judgments as are in all this law which I set before you this day? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Only take heed to yourself, and diligently keep yourself, lest you forget the things your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life. And teach them to your children and your grandchildren, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 especially concerning the day you stood before the LORD your God in Horeb, when the LORD said to me, "Gather the people to Me, and I will let them hear My words, that they may learn to fear Me all the days they live on the earth, and that they may teach their children.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then you came near and stood at the foot of the mountain, and the mountain burned with fire to the midst of heaven, with darkness, cloud, and thick darkness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD spoke to you out of the midst of the fire. You heard the sound of the words, but saw no form; you only heard a voice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So He declared to you His covenant which He commanded you to perform, the Ten Commandments; and He wrote them on two tablets of stone. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and judgments, that you might observe them in the land which you cross over to possess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Take careful heed to yourselves, for you saw no form when the LORD spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 lest you act corruptly and make for yourselves a carved image in the form of any figure: the likeness of male or female, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the likeness of any animal that is on the earth or the likeness of any winged bird that flies in the air, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground or the likeness of any fish that is in the water beneath the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And take heed, lest you lift your eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun, the moon, and the stars, all the host of heaven, you feel driven to worship them and serve them, which the LORD your God has given to all the peoples under the whole heaven as a heritage. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the LORD has taken you and brought you out of the iron furnace, out of Egypt, to be His people, an inheritance, as you are this day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Furthermore the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, and swore that I would not cross over the Jordan, and that I would not enter the good land which the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But I must die in this land, I must not cross over the Jordan; but you shall cross over and possess that good land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Take heed to yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of the LORD your God which He made with you, and make for yourselves a carved image in the form of anything which the LORD your God has forbidden you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you beget children and grandchildren and have grown old in the land, and act corruptly and make a carved image in the form of anything, and do evil in the sight of the LORD your God to provoke Him to anger, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that you will soon utterly perish from the land which you cross over the Jordan to possess; you will not prolong your days in it, but will be utterly destroyed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD will scatter you among the peoples, and you will be left few in number among the nations where the LORD will drive you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And there you will serve gods, the work of men's hands, wood and stone, which neither see nor hear nor eat nor smell. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But from there you will seek the LORD your God, and you will find Him if you seek Him with all your heart and with all your soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When you are in distress, and all these things come upon you in the latter days, when you turn to the LORD your God and obey His voice 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 (for the LORD your God is a merciful God), He will not forsake you nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which He swore to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "For ask now concerning the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man on the earth, and ask from one end of heaven to the other, whether any great thing like this has happened, or anything like it has been heard. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Did any people ever hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and live? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Or did God ever try to go and take for Himself a nation from the midst of another nation, by trials, by signs, by wonders, by war, by a mighty hand and an outstretched arm, and by great terrors, according to all that the LORD your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 To you it was shown, that you might know that the LORD Himself is God; there is none other besides Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Out of heaven He let you hear His voice, that He might instruct you; on earth He showed you His great fire, and you heard His words out of the midst of the fire. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And because He loved your fathers, therefore He chose their descendants after them; and He brought you out of Egypt with His Presence, with His mighty power, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 driving out from before you nations greater and mightier than you, to bring you in, to give you their land as an inheritance, as it is this day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore know this day, and consider it in your heart, that the LORD Himself is God in heaven above and on the earth beneath; there is no other. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall therefore keep His statutes and His commandments which I command you today, that it may go well with you and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which the LORD your God is giving you for all time." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Moses set apart three cities on this side of the Jordan, toward the rising of the sun, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that the manslayer might flee there, who kills his neighbor unintentionally, without having hated him in time past, and that by fleeing to one of these cities he might live: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Bezer in the wilderness on the plateau for the Reubenites, Ramoth in Gilead for the Gadites, and Golan in Bashan for the Manassites. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These are the testimonies, the statutes, and the judgments which Moses spoke to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the children of Israel after they came out of Egypt, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 on this side of the Jordan, in the valley opposite Beth Peor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon, whom Moses and the children of Israel defeated after they came out of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they took possession of his land and the land of Og king of Bashan, two kings of the Amorites, who were on this side of the Jordan, toward the rising of the sun, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 from Aroer, which is on the bank of the River Arnon, even to Mount Sion (that is, Hermon), 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and all the plain on the east side of the Jordan as far as the Sea of the Arabah, below the slopes of Pisgah. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 5
\b0\fs26 \cf3 And Moses called all Israel, and said to them: "Hear, O Israel, the statutes and judgments which I speak in your hearing today, that you may learn them and be 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 careful to observe them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD our God made a covenant with us in Horeb. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD did not make this covenant with our fathers, but with us, those who are here today, all of us who are alive. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD talked with you face to face on the mountain from the midst of the fire. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I stood between the LORD and you at that time, to declare to you the word of the LORD; for you were afraid because of the fire, and you did not go up the mountain. He said: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "I am the LORD your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall have no other gods before Me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not make for yourself a carved image--any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 you shall not bow down to them nor serve them. For I, the LORD your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate Me, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but showing mercy to thousands, to those who love Me and keep My commandments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain, for the LORD will not hold him guiltless who takes His name in vain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Observe the Sabbath day, to keep it holy, as the LORD your God commanded you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Six days you shall labor and do all your work, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but the seventh day is the Sabbath of the LORD your God. In it you shall do no work: you, nor your son, nor your daughter, nor your male servant, nor your female servant, nor your ox, nor your donkey, nor any of your cattle, nor your stranger who is within your gates, that your male servant and your female servant may rest as well as you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God brought you out from there by a mighty hand and by an outstretched arm; therefore the LORD your God commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Honor your father and your mother, as the LORD your God has commanded you, that your days may be long, and that it may be well with you in the land which the LORD your God is giving you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not murder.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not commit adultery.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not steal.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not covet your neighbor's wife; and you shall not desire your neighbor's house, his field, his male servant, his female servant, his ox, his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "These words the LORD spoke to all your assembly, in the mountain from the midst of the fire, the cloud, and the thick darkness, with a loud voice; and He added no more. And He wrote them on two tablets of stone and gave them to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So it was, when you heard the voice from the midst of the darkness, while the mountain was burning with fire, that you came near to me, all the heads of your tribes and your elders. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you said: "Surely the LORD our God has shown us His glory and His greatness, and we have heard His voice from the midst of the fire. We have seen this day that God speaks with man; yet he still lives. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, why should we die? For this great fire will consume us; if we hear the voice of the LORD our God anymore, then we shall die. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For who is there of all flesh who has heard the voice of the living God speaking from the midst of the fire, as we have, and lived? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You go near and hear all that the LORD our God may say, and tell us all that the LORD our God says to you, and we will hear and do it.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then the LORD heard the voice of your words when you spoke to me, and the LORD said to me: "I have heard the voice of the words of this people which they have spoken to you. They are right in all that they have spoken. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that they had such a heart in them that they would fear Me and always keep all My commandments, that it might be well with them and with their children forever! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Go and say to them, "Return to your tents." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But as for you, stand here by Me, and I will speak to you all the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments which you shall teach them, that they may observe them in the land which I am giving them to possess.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore you shall be careful to do as the LORD your God has commanded you; you shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall walk in all the ways which the LORD your God has commanded you, that you may live and that it may be well with you, and that you may prolong your days in the land which you shall possess. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 6
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Now this is the commandment, and these are the statutes and judgments which the LORD your God has commanded to teach you, that you may observe them in the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 land which you are crossing over to possess, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that you may fear the LORD your God, to keep all His statutes and His commandments which I command you, you and your son and your grandson, all the days of your life, and that your days may be prolonged. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore hear, O Israel, and be careful to observe it, that it may be well with you, and that you may multiply greatly as the LORD God of your fathers has promised you--"a land flowing with milk and honey.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God, the LORD is one!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall love the LORD your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 your strength.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So it shall be, when the LORD your God brings you into the land of which He swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give you large and beautiful cities which you did not build, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 houses full of all good things, which you did not fill, hewn-out wells which you did not dig, vineyards and olive trees which you did not plant--when you have eaten and are full-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then beware, lest you forget the LORD who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall fear the LORD your God and serve Him, and shall take oaths in His name. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not go after other gods, the gods of the peoples who are all around you 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 (for the LORD your God is a jealous God among you), lest the anger of the LORD your God be aroused against you and destroy you from the face of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not tempt the LORD your God as you tempted Him in Massah.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall diligently keep the commandments of the LORD your God, His 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 testimonies, and His statutes which He has commanded you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the LORD, that it may be well with you, and that you may go in and possess the good land of which the LORD swore to your fathers, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 to cast out all your enemies from before you, as the LORD has spoken. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When your son asks you in time to come, saying, "What is the meaning of the testimonies, the statutes, and the judgments which the LORD our God has commanded you?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall say to your son: "We were slaves of Pharaoh in Egypt, and the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and the LORD showed signs and wonders before our eyes, great and severe, against Egypt, Pharaoh, and all his household. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then He brought us out from there, that He might bring us in, to give us the land of which He swore to our fathers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD commanded us to observe all these statutes, to fear the LORD our God, for our good always, that He might preserve us alive, as it is this day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then it will be righteousness for us, if we are careful to observe all these commandments before the LORD our God, as He has commanded us.' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 7
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "When the LORD your God brings you into the land which you go to possess, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 has cast out many nations before you, the Hittites and the Girgashites and the Amorites and the Canaanites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites, seven nations greater and mightier than you, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and when the LORD your God delivers them over to you, you shall conquer them and utterly destroy them. You shall make no covenant with them nor show mercy to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Nor shall you make marriages with them. You shall not give your daughter to their son, nor take their daughter for your son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For they will turn your sons away from following Me, to serve other gods; so the anger of the LORD will be aroused against you and destroy you suddenly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But thus you shall deal with them: you shall destroy their altars, and break down their sacred pillars, and cut down their wooden images, and burn their carved images with fire. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "For you are a holy people to the LORD your God; the LORD your God has chosen you to be a people for Himself, a special treasure above all the peoples on the face of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD did not set His love on you nor choose you because you were more in number than any other people, for you were the least of all peoples; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but because the LORD loves you, and because He would keep the oath which He swore to your fathers, the LORD has brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you from the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore know that the LORD your God, He is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and mercy for a thousand generations with those who love Him and keep His commandments; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and He repays those who hate Him to their face, to destroy them. He will not be slack with him who hates Him; He will repay him to his face. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore you shall keep the commandment, the statutes, and the judgments which I command you today, to observe them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then it shall come to pass, because you listen to these judgments, and keep and do them, that the LORD your God will keep with you the covenant and the mercy which He swore to your fathers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He will love you and bless you and multiply you; He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your land, your grain and your new wine and your oil, the increase of your cattle and the offspring of your flock, in the land of which He swore to your fathers to give you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall be blessed above all peoples; there shall not be a male or female barren among you or among your livestock. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD will take away from you all sickness, and will afflict you with none of the terrible diseases of Egypt which you have known, but will lay them on all those who hate you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also you shall destroy all the peoples whom the LORD your God delivers over to you; your eye shall have no pity on them; nor shall you serve their gods, for that will be a snare to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If you should say in your heart, "These nations are greater than I; how can I dispossess them?'-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 you shall not be afraid of them, but you shall remember well what the LORD your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the great trials which your eyes saw, the signs and the wonders, the mighty hand and the outstretched arm, by which the LORD your God brought you out. So shall the LORD your God do to all the peoples of whom you are afraid. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Moreover the LORD your God will send the hornet among them until those who are left, who hide themselves from you, are destroyed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not be terrified of them; for the LORD your God, the great and awesome God, is among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD your God will drive out those nations before you little by little; you will be unable to destroy them at once, lest the beasts of the field become too numerous for you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the LORD your God will deliver them over to you, and will inflict defeat upon them until they are destroyed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He will deliver their kings into your hand, and you will destroy their name from under heaven; no one shall be able to stand against you until you have destroyed them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall burn the carved images of their gods with fire; you shall not covet the silver or gold that is on them, nor take it for yourselves, lest you be snared by it; for it is an abomination to the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Nor shall you bring an abomination into your house, lest you be doomed to destruction like it. You shall utterly detest it and utterly abhor it, for it is an accursed thing. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 8
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Every commandment which I command you today you must be careful to observe, that you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land of which the LORD 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 swore to your fathers. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall remember that the LORD your God led you all the way these forty years in the wilderness, to humble you and test you, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep His commandments or not. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So He humbled you, allowed you to hunger, and fed you with manna which you did not know nor did your fathers know, that He might make you know that man shall not live by bread alone; but man lives by every word that proceeds from the mouth of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your garments did not wear out on you, nor did your foot swell these forty years. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You should know in your heart that as a man chastens his son, so the LORD your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 God chastens you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore you shall keep the commandments of the LORD your God, to walk in His ways and to fear Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and springs, that flow out of valleys and hills; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 a land of wheat and barley, of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive oil and honey; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 a land in which you will eat bread without scarcity, in which you will lack nothing; a land whose stones are iron and out of whose hills you can dig copper. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When you have eaten and are full, then you shall bless the LORD your God for the good land which He has given you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Beware that you do not forget the LORD your God by not keeping His commandments, His judgments, and His statutes which I command you today, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 lest--when you have eaten and are full, and have built beautiful houses and dwell in them; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and when your herds and your flocks multiply, and your silver and your gold are multiplied, and all that you have is multiplied; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 when your heart is lifted up, and you forget the LORD your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 who led you through that great and terrible wilderness, in which were fiery serpents and scorpions and thirsty land where there was no water; who brought water for you out of the flinty rock; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 who fed you in the wilderness with manna, which your fathers did not know, that He might humble you and that He might test you, to do you good in the end-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you say in your heart, "My power and the might of my hand have gained me this wealth.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And you shall remember the LORD your God, for it is He who gives you power to get wealth, that He may establish His covenant which He swore to your fathers, as it is this day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then it shall be, if you by any means forget the LORD your God, and follow other gods, and serve them and worship them, I testify against you this day that you shall surely perish. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 As the nations which the LORD destroys before you, so you shall perish, because you would not be obedient to the voice of the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 9
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Hear, O Israel: You are to cross over the Jordan today, and go in to dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourself, cities great and fortified up to heaven, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 a people great and tall, the descendants of the Anakim, whom you know, and of whom you heard it said, "Who can stand before the descendants of Anak?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore understand today that the LORD your God is He who goes over before you as a consuming fire. He will destroy them and bring them down before you; so you shall drive them out and destroy them quickly, as the LORD has said to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Do not think in your heart, after the LORD your God has cast them out before you, saying, "Because of my righteousness the LORD has brought me in to possess this land'; but it is because of the wickedness of these nations that the LORD is driving them out from before you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 It is not because of your righteousness or the uprightness of your heart that you go in to possess their land, but because of the wickedness of these nations that the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 LORD your God drives them out from before you, and that He may fulfill the word which the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore understand that the LORD your God is not giving you this good land to possess because of your righteousness, for you are a stiff-necked people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Remember! Do not forget how you provoked the LORD your God to wrath in the wilderness. From the day that you departed from the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also in Horeb you provoked the LORD to wrath, so that the LORD was angry enough with you to have destroyed you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When I went up into the mountain to receive the tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant which the LORD made with you, then I stayed on the mountain forty days and forty nights. I neither ate bread nor drank water. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD delivered to me two tablets of stone written with the finger of God, and on them were all the words which the LORD had spoken to you on the mountain from the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, at the end of forty days and forty nights, that the LORD gave me the two tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then the LORD said to me, "Arise, go down quickly from here, for your people whom you brought out of Egypt have acted corruptly; they have quickly turned aside from the way which I commanded them; they have made themselves a molded image.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Furthermore the LORD spoke to me, saying, "I have seen this people, and indeed they are a stiff-necked people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Let Me alone, that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under heaven; and I will make of you a nation mightier and greater than they.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain burned with fire; and the two tablets of the covenant were in my two hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I looked, and behold, you had sinned against the LORD your God--had made for yourselves a molded calf! You had turned aside quickly from the way which the LORD had commanded you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then I took the two tablets and threw them out of my two hands and broke them before your eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I fell down before the LORD, as at the first, forty days and forty nights; I neither ate bread nor drank water, because of all your sin which you committed in doing wickedly in the sight of the LORD, to provoke Him to anger. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure with which the LORD was angry with you, to destroy you. But the LORD listened to me at that time also. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD was very angry with Aaron and would have destroyed him; so I prayed for Aaron also at the same time. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then I took your sin, the calf which you had made, and burned it with fire and crushed it and ground it very small, until it was as fine as dust; and I threw its dust into the brook that descended from the mountain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Also at Taberah and Massah and Kibroth Hattaavah you provoked the LORD to wrath. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Likewise, when the LORD sent you from Kadesh Barnea, saying, "Go up and possess the land which I have given you,' then you rebelled against the commandment of the LORD your God, and you did not believe Him nor obey His voice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You have been rebellious against the LORD from the day that I knew you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Thus I prostrated myself before the LORD; forty days and forty nights I kept 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 prostrating myself, because the LORD had said He would destroy you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I prayed to the LORD, and said: "O Lord GOD, do not destroy Your people and Your inheritance whom You have redeemed through Your greatness, whom You have brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Remember Your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; do not look on the stubbornness of this people, or on their wickedness or their sin, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 lest the land from which You brought us should say, "Because the LORD was not able to bring them to the land which He promised them, and because He hated them, He has brought them out to kill them in the wilderness." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Yet they are Your people and Your inheritance, whom You brought out by Your mighty power and by Your outstretched arm.' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 10
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "At that time the LORD said to me, "Hew for yourself two tablets of stone like the first, and come up to Me on the mountain and make yourself an ark of wood. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I will write on the tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke; and you shall put them in the ark.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So I made an ark of acacia wood, hewed two tablets of stone like the first, and went up the mountain, having the two tablets in my hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He wrote on the tablets according to the first writing, the Ten Commandments, which the LORD had spoken to you in the mountain from the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly; and the LORD gave them to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then I turned and came down from the mountain, and put the tablets in the ark which I had made; and there they are, just as the LORD commanded me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 (Now the children of Israel journeyed from the wells of Bene Jaakan to Moserah, where Aaron died, and where he was buried; and Eleazar his son ministered as priest in his stead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 From there they journeyed to Gudgodah, and from Gudgodah to Jotbathah, a land of rivers of water. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 At that time the LORD separated the tribe of Levi to bear the ark of the covenant of the LORD, to stand before the LORD to minister to Him and to bless in His name, to this day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore Levi has no portion nor inheritance with his brethren; the LORD is his inheritance, just as the LORD your God promised him.) 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "As at the first time, I stayed in the mountain forty days and forty nights; the LORD also heard me at that time, and the LORD chose not to destroy you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD said to me, "Arise, begin your journey before the people, that they may go in and possess the land which I swore to their fathers to give them.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And now, Israel, what does the LORD your God require of you, but to fear the LORD your God, to walk in all His ways and to love Him, to serve the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and to keep the commandments of the LORD and His statutes which I command you today for your good? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Indeed heaven and the highest heavens belong to the LORD your God, also the earth with all that is in it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD delighted only in your fathers, to love them; and He chose their descendants after them, you above all peoples, as it is this day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore circumcise the foreskin of your heart, and be stiff-necked no longer.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD your God is God of gods and Lord of lords, the great God, mighty 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 and awesome, who shows no partiality nor takes a bribe. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He administers justice for the fatherless and the widow, and loves the stranger, giving him food and clothing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore love the stranger, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall fear the LORD your God; you shall serve Him, and to Him you shall hold 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 fast, and take oaths in His name. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He is your praise, and He is your God, who has done for you these great and awesome things which your eyes have seen. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your fathers went down to Egypt with seventy persons, and now the LORD your God has made you as the stars of heaven in multitude. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 11
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Therefore you shall love the LORD your God, and keep His charge, His statutes, His judgments, and His commandments always. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Know today that I do not speak with your children, who have not known and who have not seen the chastening of the LORD your God, His greatness and His mighty hand and His outstretched arm-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 His signs and His acts which He did in the midst of Egypt, to Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to all his land; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 what He did to the army of Egypt, to their horses and their chariots: how He made the waters of the Red Sea overflow them as they pursued you, and how the LORD has destroyed them to this day; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 what He did for you in the wilderness until you came to this place; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and what He did to Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben: how the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them up, their households, their tents, and all the substance that was in their possession, in the midst of all Israel-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but your eyes have seen every great act of the LORD which He did.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore you shall keep every commandment which I command you today, that 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 you may be strong, and go in and possess the land which you cross over to possess, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and that you may prolong your days in the land which the LORD swore to give your fathers, to them and their descendants, "a land flowing with milk and honey.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For the land which you go to possess is not like the land of Egypt from which you have come, where you sowed your seed and watered it by foot, as a vegetable garden; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but the land which you cross over to possess is a land of hills and valleys, which drinks water from the rain of heaven, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 a land for which the LORD your God cares; the eyes of the LORD your God are always on it, from the beginning of the year to the very end of the year. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And it shall be that if you earnestly obey My commandments which I command you today, to love the LORD your God and serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then I will give you the rain for your land in its season, the early rain and the latter rain, that you may gather in your grain, your new wine, and your oil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I will send grass in your fields for your livestock, that you may eat and be filled.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Take heed to yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 lest the LORD's anger be aroused against you, and He shut up the heavens so that there be no rain, and the land yield no produce, and you perish quickly from the good land which the LORD is giving you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore you shall lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul, and bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that your days and the days of your children may be multiplied in the land of which the LORD swore to your fathers to give them, like the days of the heavens above the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "For if you carefully keep all these commandments which I command you to do--to love the LORD your God, to walk in all His ways, and to hold fast to Him-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then the LORD will drive out all these nations from before you, and you will dispossess greater and mightier nations than yourselves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Every place on which the sole of your foot treads shall be yours: from the wilderness and Lebanon, from the river, the River Euphrates, even to the Western Sea, shall be your territory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 No man shall be able to stand against you; the LORD your God will put the dread of you and the fear of you upon all the land where you tread, just as He has said to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Behold, I set before you today a blessing and a curse:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the blessing, if you obey the commandments of the LORD your God which I 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 command you today; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and the curse, if you do not obey the commandments of the LORD your God, but turn aside from the way which I command you today, to go after other gods which you have not known. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it shall be, when the LORD your God has brought you into the land which you go to possess, that you shall put the blessing on Mount Gerizim and the curse on Mount Ebal. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Are they not on the other side of the Jordan, toward the setting sun, in the land of the Canaanites who dwell in the plain opposite Gilgal, beside the terebinth trees of Moreh? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For you will cross over the Jordan and go in to possess the land which the LORD your God is giving you, and you will possess it and dwell in it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall be careful to observe all the statutes and judgments which I set before you today. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 12
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "These are the statutes and judgments which you shall be careful to observe in the land which the LORD God of your fathers is giving you to possess, all the days 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 that you live on the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall utterly destroy all the places where the nations which you shall dispossess served their gods, on the high mountains and on the hills and under every green tree. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall destroy their altars, break their sacred pillars, and burn their wooden images with fire; you shall cut down the carved images of their gods and destroy their names from that place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not worship the LORD your God with such things.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "But you shall seek the place where the LORD your God chooses, out of all your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 tribes, to put His name for His dwelling place; and there you shall go. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 There you shall take your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, the heave offerings of your hand, your vowed offerings, your freewill offerings, and the firstborn of your herds and flocks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And there you shall eat before the LORD your God, and you shall rejoice in all to which you have put your hand, you and your households, in which the LORD your God has blessed you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not at all do as we are doing here today--every man doing whatever is right in his own eyes-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 for as yet you have not come to the rest and the inheritance which the LORD your God is giving you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But when you cross over the Jordan and dwell in the land which the LORD your God is giving you to inherit, and He gives you rest from all your enemies round about, so that you dwell in safety, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then there will be the place where the LORD your God chooses to make His name abide. There you shall bring all that I command you: your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, the heave offerings of your hand, and all your choice offerings which you vow to the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God, you and your sons and your daughters, your male and female servants, and the Levite who is within your gates, since he has no portion nor inheritance with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Take heed to yourself that you do not offer your burnt offerings in every place that you see; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but in the place which the LORD chooses, in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt offerings, and there you shall do all that I command you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "However, you may slaughter and eat meat within all your gates, whatever your heart desires, according to the blessing of the LORD your God which He has given you; the unclean and the clean may eat of it, of the gazelle and the deer alike. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Only you shall not eat the blood; you shall pour it on the earth like water. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You may not eat within your gates the tithe of your grain or your new wine or your oil, of the firstborn of your herd or your flock, of any of your offerings which you vow, of your freewill offerings, or of the heave offering of your hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But you must eat them before the LORD your God in the place which the LORD your God chooses, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, and the Levite who is within your gates; and you shall rejoice before the LORD your God in all to which you put your hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Take heed to yourself that you do not forsake the Levite as long as you live in your land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When the LORD your God enlarges your border as He has promised you, and you say, "Let me eat meat,' because you long to eat meat, you may eat as much meat as your heart desires. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If the place where the LORD your God chooses to put His name is too far from you, then you may slaughter from your herd and from your flock which the LORD has 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 given you, just as I have commanded you, and you may eat within your gates as much as your heart desires. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Just as the gazelle and the deer are eaten, so you may eat them; the unclean and the clean alike may eat them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Only be sure that you do not eat the blood, for the blood is the life; you may not eat the life with the meat. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not eat it; you shall pour it on the earth like water.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not eat it, that it may go well with you and your children after you, when 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 you do what is right in the sight of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Only the holy things which you have, and your vowed offerings, you shall take and go to the place which the LORD chooses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall offer your burnt offerings, the meat and the blood, on the altar of the LORD your God; and the blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out on the altar of the LORD your God, and you shall eat the meat. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Observe and obey all these words which I command you, that it may go well with you and your children after you forever, when you do what is good and right in the sight of the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When the LORD your God cuts off from before you the nations which you go to dispossess, and you displace them and dwell in their land, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 take heed to yourself that you are not ensnared to follow them, after they are destroyed from before you, and that you do not inquire after their gods, saying, "How did these nations serve their gods? I also will do likewise.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not worship the LORD your God in that way; for every abomination to the LORD which He hates they have done to their gods; for they burn even their sons and daughters in the fire to their gods. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Whatever I command you, be careful to observe it; you shall not add to it nor take away from it. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 13
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "If there arises among you a prophet or a dreamer of dreams, and he gives you a sign or a wonder, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and the sign or the wonder comes to pass, of which he spoke to you, saying, "Let us go after other gods'--which you have not known--"and let us serve them,' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 you shall not listen to the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams, for the LORD your God is testing you to know whether you love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall walk after the LORD your God and fear Him, and keep His commandments and obey His voice; you shall serve Him and hold fast to Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But that prophet or that dreamer of dreams shall be put to death, because he has spoken in order to turn you away from the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of bondage, to entice you from the way in which the LORD your God commanded you to walk. So you shall put away the evil from your midst. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If your brother, the son of your mother, your son or your daughter, the wife of your bosom, or your friend who is as your own soul, secretly entices you, saying, "Let us go and serve other gods,' which you have not known, neither you nor your fathers, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 of the gods of the people which are all around you, near to you or far off from you, from one end of the earth to the other end of the earth, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 you shall not consent to him or listen to him, nor shall your eye pity him, nor shall you spare him or conceal him; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but you shall surely kill him; your hand shall be first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hand of all the people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall stone him with stones until he dies, because he sought to entice you away from the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all Israel shall hear and fear, and not again do such wickedness as this among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If you hear someone in one of your cities, which the LORD your God gives you to dwell in, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Corrupt men have gone out from among you and enticed the inhabitants of their city, saying, "Let us go and serve other gods"'--which you have not known-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall inquire, search out, and ask diligently. And if it is indeed true and certain that such an abomination was committed among you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 you shall surely strike the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, utterly destroying it, all that is in it and its livestock--with the edge of the sword. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall gather all its plunder into the middle of the street, and completely burn with fire the city and all its plunder, for the LORD your God. It shall be a heap forever; it shall not be built again. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So none of the accursed things shall remain in your hand, that the LORD may turn from the fierceness of His anger and show you mercy, have compassion on you and multiply you, just as He swore to your fathers, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 because you have listened to the voice of the LORD your God, to keep all His commandments which I command you today, to do what is right in the eyes of the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 14
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "You are the children of the LORD your God; you shall not cut yourselves nor shave the front of your head for the dead. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For you are a holy people to the LORD your God, and the LORD has chosen you to be a people for Himself, a special treasure above all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not eat any detestable thing.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These are the animals which you may eat: the ox, the sheep, the goat, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the deer, the gazelle, the roe deer, the wild goat, the mountain goat, the antelope, and the mountain sheep. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you may eat every animal with cloven hooves, having the hoof split into two parts, and that chews the cud, among the animals. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless, of those that chew the cud or have cloven hooves, you shall not eat, such as these: the camel, the hare, and the rock hyrax; for they chew the cud but do not have cloven hooves; they are unclean for you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also the swine is unclean for you, because it has cloven hooves, yet does not chew the cud; you shall not eat their flesh or touch their dead carcasses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "These you may eat of all that are in the waters: you may eat all that have fins and scales. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And whatever does not have fins and scales you shall not eat; it is unclean for you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "All clean birds you may eat.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But these you shall not eat: the eagle, the vulture, the buzzard,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the red kite, the falcon, and the kite after their kinds; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 every raven after its kind;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the ostrich, the short-eared owl, the sea gull, and the hawk after their kinds; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the little owl, the screech owl, the white owl,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the jackdaw, the carrion vulture, the fisher owl,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the stork, the heron after its kind, and the hoopoe and the bat.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Also every creeping thing that flies is unclean for you; they shall not be eaten. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You may eat all clean birds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not eat anything that dies of itself; you may give it to the alien who is within your gates, that he may eat it, or you may sell it to a foreigner; for you are a holy people to the LORD your God. "You shall not boil a young goat in its mother's milk. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall truly tithe all the increase of your grain that the field produces year by year. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall eat before the LORD your God, in the place where He chooses to make His name abide, the tithe of your grain and your new wine and your oil, of the firstborn of your herds and your flocks, that you may learn to fear the LORD your God always. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But if the journey is too long for you, so that you are not able to carry the tithe, or if the place where the LORD your God chooses to put His name is too far from you, when the LORD your God has blessed you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall exchange it for money, take the money in your hand, and go to the place which the LORD your God chooses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall spend that money for whatever your heart desires: for oxen or sheep, for wine or similar drink, for whatever your heart desires; you shall eat there before the LORD your God, and you shall rejoice, you and your household. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not forsake the Levite who is within your gates, for he has no part nor inheritance with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "At the end of every third year you shall bring out the tithe of your produce of that year and store it up within your gates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the Levite, because he has no portion nor inheritance with you, and the stranger and the fatherless and the widow who are within your gates, may come and eat and be satisfied, that the LORD your God may bless you in all the work of your hand which you do. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 15
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "At the end of every seven years you shall grant a release of debts. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And this is the form of the release: Every creditor who has lent anything to his neighbor shall release it; he shall not require it of his neighbor or his brother, because it is called the LORD's release. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Of a foreigner you may require it; but you shall give up your claim to what is owed by your brother, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 except when there may be no poor among you; for the LORD will greatly bless you in the land which the LORD your God is giving you to possess as an inheritance-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 only if you carefully obey the voice of the LORD your God, to observe with care all these commandments which I command you today. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD your God will bless you just as He promised you; you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow; you shall reign over many nations, but they shall not reign over you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If there is among you a poor man of your brethren, within any of the gates in your land which the LORD your God is giving you, you shall not harden your heart nor shut your hand from your poor brother, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but you shall open your hand wide to him and willingly lend him sufficient for his need, whatever he needs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Beware lest there be a wicked thought in your heart, saying, "The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand,' and your eye be evil against your poor brother and you give him nothing, and he cry out to the LORD against you, and it become sin among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall surely give to him, and your heart should not be grieved when you give to him, because for this thing the LORD your God will bless you in all your works and in all to which you put your hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For the poor will never cease from the land; therefore I command you, saying, "You shall open your hand wide to your brother, to your poor and your needy, in your land.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If your brother, a Hebrew man, or a Hebrew woman, is sold to you and serves you six years, then in the seventh year you shall let him go free from you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when you send him away free from you, you shall not let him go away empty- handed; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 you shall supply him liberally from your flock, from your threshing floor, and from your winepress. From what the LORD has blessed you with, you shall give to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God redeemed you; therefore I command you this thing today. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And if it happens that he says to you, "I will not go away from you,' because he loves you and your house, since he prospers with you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall take an awl and thrust it through his ear to the door, and he shall be your servant forever. Also to your female servant you shall do likewise. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 It shall not seem hard to you when you send him away free from you; for he has been worth a double hired servant in serving you six years. Then the LORD your God will bless you in all that you do. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "All the firstborn males that come from your herd and your flock you shall sanctify to the LORD your God; you shall do no work with the firstborn of your herd, nor shear the firstborn of your flock. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You and your household shall eat it before the LORD your God year by year in the place which the LORD chooses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But if there is a defect in it, if it is lame or blind or has any serious defect, you shall not sacrifice it to the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You may eat it within your gates; the unclean and the clean person alike may eat it, as if it were a gazelle or a deer. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Only you shall not eat its blood; you shall pour it on the ground like water. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 16
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Observe the month of Abib, and keep the Passover to the LORD your God, for 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 in the month of Abib the LORD your God brought you out of Egypt by night. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore you shall sacrifice the Passover to the LORD your God, from the flock and the herd, in the place where the LORD chooses to put His name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall eat no leavened bread with it; seven days you shall eat unleavened bread with it, that is, the bread of affliction (for you came out of the land of Egypt in haste), that you may remember the day in which you came out of the land of Egypt all the days of your life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And no leaven shall be seen among you in all your territory for seven days, nor shall any of the meat which you sacrifice the first day at twilight remain overnight until morning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You may not sacrifice the Passover within any of your gates which the LORD your God gives you; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but at the place where the LORD your God chooses to make His name abide, there you shall sacrifice the Passover at twilight, at the going down of the sun, at the time you came out of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall roast and eat it in the place which the LORD your God chooses, and in the morning you shall turn and go to your tents. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Six days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day there shall be a sacred assembly to the LORD your God. You shall do no work on it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall count seven weeks for yourself; begin to count the seven weeks from the time you begin to put the sickle to the grain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then you shall keep the Feast of Weeks to the LORD your God with the tribute of a freewill offering from your hand, which you shall give as the LORD your God blesses you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall rejoice before the LORD your God, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant, the Levite who is within your gates, the stranger and the fatherless and the widow who are among you, at the place where the LORD your God chooses to make His name abide. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and you shall be careful to observe these statutes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall observe the Feast of Tabernacles seven days, when you have gathered from your threshing floor and from your winepress. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall rejoice in your feast, you and your son and your daughter, your male servant and your female servant and the Levite, the stranger and the fatherless and the widow, who are within your gates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Seven days you shall keep a sacred feast to the LORD your God in the place which the LORD chooses, because the LORD your God will bless you in all your produce and in all the work of your hands, so that you surely rejoice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Three times a year all your males shall appear before the LORD your God in the place which He chooses: at the Feast of Unleavened Bread, at the Feast of Weeks, and at the Feast of Tabernacles; and they shall not appear before the LORD empty- handed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the LORD your God which He has given you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall appoint judges and officers in all your gates, which the LORD your God gives you, according to your tribes, and they shall judge the people with just judgment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not pervert justice; you shall not show partiality, nor take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and twists the words of the righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall follow what is altogether just, that you may live and inherit the land which the LORD your God is giving you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not plant for yourself any tree, as a wooden image, near the altar which you build for yourself to the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not set up a sacred pillar, which the LORD your God hates.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 17
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "You shall not sacrifice to the LORD your God a bull or sheep which has any 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 blemish or defect, for that is an abomination to the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If there is found among you, within any of your gates which the LORD your God gives you, a man or a woman who has been wicked in the sight of the LORD your God, in transgressing His covenant, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 who has gone and served other gods and worshiped them, either the sun or moon or any of the host of heaven, which I have not commanded, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and it is told you, and you hear of it, then you shall inquire diligently. And if it is indeed true and certain that such an abomination has been committed in Israel, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall bring out to your gates that man or woman who has committed that wicked thing, and shall stone to death that man or woman with stones. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Whoever is deserving of death shall be put to death on the testimony of two or three witnesses; he shall not be put to death on the testimony of one witness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The hands of the witnesses shall be the first against him to put him to death, and afterward the hands of all the people. So you shall put away the evil from among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If a matter arises which is too hard for you to judge, between degrees of guilt for bloodshed, between one judgment or another, or between one punishment or another, matters of controversy within your gates, then you shall arise and go up to the place which the LORD your God chooses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall come to the priests, the Levites, and to the judge there in those days, and inquire of them; they shall pronounce upon you the sentence of judgment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall do according to the sentence which they pronounce upon you in that place which the LORD chooses. And you shall be careful to do according to all that they order you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 According to the sentence of the law in which they instruct you, according to the judgment which they tell you, you shall do; you shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left from the sentence which they pronounce upon you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the man who acts presumptuously and will not heed the priest who stands to minister there before the LORD your God, or the judge, that man shall die. So you shall put away the evil from Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And all the people shall hear and fear, and no longer act presumptuously. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you come to the land which the LORD your God is giving you, and possess it and dwell in it, and say, "I will set a king over me like all the nations that are around me,' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 you shall surely set a king over you whom the LORD your God chooses; one from among your brethren you shall set as king over you; you may not set a foreigner over you, who is not your brother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he shall not multiply horses for himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt to multiply horses, for the LORD has said to you, "You shall not return that way again.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Neither shall he multiply wives for himself, lest his heart turn away; nor shall he greatly multiply silver and gold for himself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Also it shall be, when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write for himself a copy of this law in a book, from the one before the priests, the Levites. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the LORD his God and be careful to observe all the words of this law and these statutes, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that his heart may not be lifted above his brethren, that he may not turn aside from the commandment to the right hand or to the left, and that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his children in the midst of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 18
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "The priests, the Levites--all the tribe of Levi--shall have no part nor inheritance with Israel; they shall eat the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and His portion. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore they shall have no inheritance among their brethren; the LORD is their inheritance, as He said to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And this shall be the priest's due from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether it is bull or sheep: they shall give to the priest the shoulder, the cheeks, and the stomach. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The firstfruits of your grain and your new wine and your oil, and the first of the fleece of your sheep, you shall give him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD your God has chosen him out of all your tribes to stand to minister in the name of the LORD, him and his sons forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So if a Levite comes from any of your gates, from where he dwells among all Israel, and comes with all the desire of his mind to the place which the LORD chooses, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then he may serve in the name of the LORD his God as all his brethren the Levites do, who stand there before the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They shall have equal portions to eat, besides what comes from the sale of his inheritance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you come into the land which the LORD your God is giving you, you shall not learn to follow the abominations of those nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 There shall not be found among you anyone who makes his son or his daughter pass through the fire, or one who practices witchcraft, or a soothsayer, or one who interprets omens, or a sorcerer, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 or one who conjures spells, or a medium, or a spiritist, or one who calls up the dead. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For all who do these things are an abomination to the LORD, and because of these 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 abominations the LORD your God drives them out from before you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall be blameless before the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For these nations which you will dispossess listened to soothsayers and diviners; but as for you, the LORD your God has not appointed such for you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The LORD your God will raise up for you a Prophet like me from your midst, from your brethren. Him you shall hear, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 according to all you desired of the LORD your God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, "Let me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God, nor let me see this great fire anymore, lest I die.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And the LORD said to me: "What they have spoken is good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I will raise up for them a Prophet like you from among their brethren, and will put My words in His mouth, and He shall speak to them all that I command Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it shall be that whoever will not hear My words, which He speaks in My name, I will require it of him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in My name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And if you say in your heart, "How shall we know the word which the LORD has not spoken?'-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 when a prophet speaks in the name of the LORD, if the thing does not happen or come to pass, that is the thing which the LORD has not spoken; the prophet has spoken it presumptuously; you shall not be afraid of him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 19
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "When the LORD your God has cut off the nations whose land the LORD your God is giving you, and you dispossess them and dwell in their cities and in their 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 houses, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 you shall separate three cities for yourself in the midst of your land which the LORD your God is giving you to possess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall prepare roads for yourself, and divide into three parts the territory of your land which the LORD your God is giving you to inherit, that any manslayer may flee there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And this is the case of the manslayer who flees there, that he may live: Whoever kills his neighbor unintentionally, not having hated him in time past-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 as when a man goes to the woods with his neighbor to cut timber, and his hand swings a stroke with the ax to cut down the tree, and the head slips from the handle and strikes his neighbor so that he dies--he shall flee to one of these cities and live; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 lest the avenger of blood, while his anger is hot, pursue the manslayer and overtake him, because the way is long, and kill him, though he was not deserving of death, since he had not hated the victim in time past. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I command you, saying, "You shall separate three cities for yourself.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Now if the LORD your God enlarges your territory, as He swore to your fathers, and gives you the land which He promised to give to your fathers, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and if you keep all these commandments and do them, which I command you today, to love the LORD your God and to walk always in His ways, then you shall add three more cities for yourself besides these three, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 lest innocent blood be shed in the midst of your land which the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance, and thus guilt of bloodshed be upon you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "But if anyone hates his neighbor, lies in wait for him, rises against him and strikes him mortally, so that he dies, and he flees to one of these cities, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then the elders of his city shall send and bring him from there, and deliver him over to the hand of the avenger of blood, that he may die. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your eye shall not pity him, but you shall put away the guilt of innocent blood from Israel, that it may go well with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not remove your neighbor's landmark, which the men of old have set, in your inheritance which you will inherit in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "One witness shall not rise against a man concerning any iniquity or any sin that he commits; by the mouth of two or three witnesses the matter shall be established. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If a false witness rises against any man to testify against him of wrongdoing,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then both men in the controversy shall stand before the LORD, before the priests 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 and the judges who serve in those days. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the judges shall make careful inquiry, and indeed, if the witness is a false witness, who has testified falsely against his brother, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall do to him as he thought to have done to his brother; so you shall put away the evil from among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And those who remain shall hear and fear, and hereafter they shall not again commit such evil among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your eye shall not pity: life shall be for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 20
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "When you go out to battle against your enemies, and see horses and chariots and people more numerous than you, do not be afraid of them; for the LORD your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 God is with you, who brought you up from the land of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it shall be, when you are on the verge of battle, that the priest shall approach and speak to the people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he shall say to them, "Hear, O Israel: Today you are on the verge of battle with your enemies. Do not let your heart faint, do not be afraid, and do not tremble or be terrified because of them; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 for the LORD your God is He who goes with you, to fight for you against your enemies, to save you.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then the officers shall speak to the people, saying: "What man is there who has built a new house and has not dedicated it? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man dedicate it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also what man is there who has planted a vineyard and has not eaten of it? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man eat of it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And what man is there who is betrothed to a woman and has not married her? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man marry her.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The officers shall speak further to the people, and say, "What man is there who is fearful and fainthearted? Let him go and return to his house, lest the heart of his brethren faint like his heart.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And so it shall be, when the officers have finished speaking to the people, that they shall make captains of the armies to lead the people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you go near a city to fight against it, then proclaim an offer of peace to it. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it shall be that if they accept your offer of peace, and open to you, then all the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 people who are found in it shall be placed under tribute to you, and serve you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now if the city will not make peace with you, but war against you, then you shall besiege it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when the LORD your God delivers it into your hands, you shall strike every male in it with the edge of the sword. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the women, the little ones, the livestock, and all that is in the city, all its spoil, you shall plunder for yourself; and you shall eat the enemies' plunder which the LORD your God gives you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Thus you shall do to all the cities which are very far from you, which are not of the cities of these nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "But of the cities of these peoples which the LORD your God gives you as an inheritance, you shall let nothing that breathes remain alive, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but you shall utterly destroy them: the Hittite and the Amorite and the Canaanite and the Perizzite and the Hivite and the Jebusite, just as the LORD your God has commanded you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 lest they teach you to do according to all their abominations which they have done for their gods, and you sin against the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you besiege a city for a long time, while making war against it to take it, you shall not destroy its trees by wielding an ax against them; if you can eat of them, do not cut them down to use in the siege, for the tree of the field is man's food. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Only the trees which you know are not trees for food you may destroy and cut down, to build siegeworks against the city that makes war with you, until it is subdued. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 21
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "If anyone is found slain, lying in the field in the land which the LORD your God is giving you to possess, and it is not known who killed him, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then your elders and your judges shall go out and measure the distance from the slain man to the surrounding cities. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it shall be that the elders of the city nearest to the slain man will take a heifer which has not been worked and which has not pulled with a yoke. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The elders of that city shall bring the heifer down to a valley with flowing water, which is neither plowed nor sown, and they shall break the heifer's neck there in the valley. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the priests, the sons of Levi, shall come near, for the LORD your God has chosen them to minister to Him and to bless in the name of the LORD; by their word every controversy and every assault shall be settled. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And all the elders of that city nearest to the slain man shall wash their hands over the heifer whose neck was broken in the valley. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they shall answer and say, "Our hands have not shed this blood, nor have our eyes seen it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Provide atonement, O LORD, for Your people Israel, whom You have redeemed, and do not lay innocent blood to the charge of Your people Israel.' And atonement shall be provided on their behalf for the blood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So you shall put away the guilt of innocent blood from among you when you do what is right in the sight of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you go out to war against your enemies, and the LORD your God delivers them into your hand, and you take them captive, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and you see among the captives a beautiful woman, and desire her and would take her for your wife, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall bring her home to your house, and she shall shave her head and trim her nails. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 She shall put off the clothes of her captivity, remain in your house, and mourn her father and her mother a full month; after that you may go in to her and be her husband, and she shall be your wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it shall be, if you have no delight in her, then you shall set her free, but you certainly shall not sell her for money; you shall not treat her brutally, because you have humbled her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If a man has two wives, one loved and the other unloved, and they have borne him children, both the loved and the unloved, and if the firstborn son is of her who is unloved, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then it shall be, on the day he bequeaths his possessions to his sons, that he must not bestow firstborn status on the son of the loved wife in preference to the son of the unloved, the true firstborn. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he shall acknowledge the son of the unloved wife as the firstborn by giving him a double portion of all that he has, for he is the beginning of his strength; the right of the firstborn is his. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son who will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother, and who, when they have chastened him, will not heed them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then his father and his mother shall take hold of him and bring him out to the elders of his city, to the gate of his city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they shall say to the elders of his city, "This son of ours is stubborn and rebellious; he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton and a drunkard.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then all the men of his city shall stone him to death with stones; so you shall put away the evil from among you, and all Israel shall hear and fear. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If a man has committed a sin deserving of death, and he is put to death, and you hang him on a tree, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 his body shall not remain overnight on the tree, but you shall surely bury him that day, so that you do not defile the land which the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance; for he who is hanged is accursed of God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 22
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep going astray, and hide yourself from them; you shall certainly bring them back to your brother. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And if your brother is not near you, or if you do not know him, then you shall bring it to your own house, and it shall remain with you until your brother seeks it; then you shall restore it to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall do the same with his donkey, and so shall you do with his garment; with any lost thing of your brother's, which he has lost and you have found, you shall do likewise; you must not hide yourself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fall down along the road, and hide yourself from them; you shall surely help him lift them up again. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "A woman shall not wear anything that pertains to a man, nor shall a man put on a woman's garment, for all who do so are an abomination to the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If a bird's nest happens to be before you along the way, in any tree or on the ground, with young ones or eggs, with the mother sitting on the young or on the eggs, you shall not take the mother with the young; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 you shall surely let the mother go, and take the young for yourself, that it may be well with you and that you may prolong your days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you build a new house, then you shall make a parapet for your roof, that you may not bring guilt of bloodshed on your household if anyone falls from it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not sow your vineyard with different kinds of seed, lest the yield of the seed which you have sown and the fruit of your vineyard be defiled. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not plow with an ox and a donkey together.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not wear a garment of different sorts, such as wool and linen mixed 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 together. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall make tassels on the four corners of the clothing with which you cover yourself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If any man takes a wife, and goes in to her, and detests her,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and charges her with shameful conduct, and brings a bad name on her, and says, "I 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 took this woman, and when I came to her I found she was not a virgin,' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then the father and mother of the young woman shall take and bring out the evidence of the young woman's virginity to the elders of the city at the gate. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the young woman's father shall say to the elders, "I gave my daughter to this man as wife, and he detests her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now he has charged her with shameful conduct, saying, "I found your daughter was not a virgin," and yet these are the evidences of my daughter's virginity.' And they shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the elders of that city shall take that man and punish him; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and they shall fine him one hundred shekels of silver and give them to the father of the young woman, because he has brought a bad name on a virgin of Israel. And she shall be his wife; he cannot divorce her all his days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "But if the thing is true, and evidences of virginity are not found for the young woman, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then they shall bring out the young woman to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her to death with stones, because she has done a disgraceful thing in Israel, to play the harlot in her father's house. So you shall put away the evil from among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If a man is found lying with a woman married to a husband, then both of them shall die--the man that lay with the woman, and the woman; so you shall put away the evil from Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If a young woman who is a virgin is betrothed to a husband, and a man finds her in the city and lies with her, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall bring them both out to the gate of that city, and you shall stone them to death with stones, the young woman because she did not cry out in the city, and the man because he humbled his neighbor's wife; so you shall put away the evil from among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "But if a man finds a betrothed young woman in the countryside, and the man forces her and lies with her, then only the man who lay with her shall die. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But you shall do nothing to the young woman; there is in the young woman no sin deserving of death, for just as when a man rises against his neighbor and kills him, even so is this matter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For he found her in the countryside, and the betrothed young woman cried out, but there was no one to save her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If a man finds a young woman who is a virgin, who is not betrothed, and he seizes her and lies with her, and they are found out, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then the man who lay with her shall give to the young woman's father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife because he has humbled her; he shall not be permitted to divorce her all his days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "A man shall not take his father's wife, nor uncover his father's bed.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 23
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "He who is emasculated by crushing or mutilation shall not enter the assembly 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "One of illegitimate birth shall not enter the assembly of the LORD; even to the tenth generation none of his descendants shall enter the assembly of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "An Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter the assembly of the LORD; even to the tenth generation none of his descendants shall enter the assembly of the LORD forever, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 because they did not meet you with bread and water on the road when you came out of Egypt, and because they hired against you Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless the LORD your God would not listen to Balaam, but the LORD your God turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the LORD your God loves you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not seek their peace nor their prosperity all your days forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not abhor an Edomite, for he is your brother. You shall not abhor an 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Egyptian, because you were an alien in his land. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The children of the third generation born to them may enter the assembly of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When the army goes out against your enemies, then keep yourself from every wicked thing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If there is any man among you who becomes unclean by some occurrence in the night, then he shall go outside the camp; he shall not come inside the camp. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But it shall be, when evening comes, that he shall wash with water; and when the sun sets, he may come into the camp. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Also you shall have a place outside the camp, where you may go out;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and you shall have an implement among your equipment, and when you sit down 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 outside, you shall dig with it and turn and cover your refuse. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD your God walks in the midst of your camp, to deliver you and give your enemies over to you; therefore your camp shall be holy, that He may see no unclean thing among you, and turn away from you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not give back to his master the slave who has escaped from his master to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He may dwell with you in your midst, in the place which he chooses within one of your gates, where it seems best to him; you shall not oppress him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "There shall be no ritual harlot of the daughters of Israel, or a perverted one of the sons of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not bring the wages of a harlot or the price of a dog to the house of the LORD your God for any vowed offering, for both of these are an abomination to the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not charge interest to your brother--interest on money or food or anything that is lent out at interest. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 To a foreigner you may charge interest, but to your brother you shall not charge interest, that the LORD your God may bless you in all to which you set your hand in the land which you are entering to possess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you make a vow to the LORD your God, you shall not delay to pay it; for the LORD your God will surely require it of you, and it would be sin to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But if you abstain from vowing, it shall not be sin to you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 That which has gone from your lips you shall keep and perform, for you voluntarily 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 vowed to the LORD your God what you have promised with your mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you come into your neighbor's vineyard, you may eat your fill of grapes at your pleasure, but you shall not put any in your container. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When you come into your neighbor's standing grain, you may pluck the heads with your hand, but you shall not use a sickle on your neighbor's standing grain. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 24
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "When a man takes a wife and marries her, and it happens that she finds no favor in his eyes because he has found some uncleanness in her, and he writes her 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 when she has departed from his house, and goes and becomes another man's wife, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 if the latter husband detests her and writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house, or if the latter husband dies who took her as his wife, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then her former husband who divorced her must not take her back to be his wife after she has been defiled; for that is an abomination before the LORD, and you shall not bring sin on the land which the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When a man has taken a new wife, he shall not go out to war or be charged with any business; he shall be free at home one year, and bring happiness to his wife whom he has taken. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "No man shall take the lower or the upper millstone in pledge, for he takes one's living in pledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If a man is found kidnapping any of his brethren of the children of Israel, and mistreats him or sells him, then that kidnapper shall die; and you shall put away the evil from among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Take heed in an outbreak of leprosy, that you carefully observe and do according to all that the priests, the Levites, shall teach you; just as I commanded them, so you shall be careful to do. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Remember what the LORD your God did to Miriam on the way when you came out of Egypt! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you lend your brother anything, you shall not go into his house to get his pledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall stand outside, and the man to whom you lend shall bring the pledge out to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And if the man is poor, you shall not keep his pledge overnight. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall in any case return the pledge to him again when the sun goes down, that he may sleep in his own garment and bless you; and it shall be righteousness to you before the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not oppress a hired servant who is poor and needy, whether one of your brethren or one of the aliens who is in your land within your gates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Each day you shall give him his wages, and not let the sun go down on it, for he is poor and has set his heart on it; lest he cry out against you to the LORD, and it be sin to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Fathers shall not be put to death for their children, nor shall children be put to death for their fathers; a person shall be put to death for his own sin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not pervert justice due the stranger or the fatherless, nor take a widow's garment as a pledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But you shall remember that you were a slave in Egypt, and the LORD your God redeemed you from there; therefore I command you to do this thing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you reap your harvest in your field, and forget a sheaf in the field, you shall not go back to get it; it shall be for the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, that the LORD your God may bless you in all the work of your hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When you beat your olive trees, you shall not go over the boughs again; it shall be for the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When you gather the grapes of your vineyard, you shall not glean it afterward; it shall be for the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall remember that you were a slave in the land of Egypt; therefore I command you to do this thing. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 25
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "If there is a dispute between men, and they come to court, that the judges may judge them, and they justify the righteous and condemn the wicked, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then it shall be, if the wicked man deserves to be beaten, that the judge will cause him to lie down and be beaten in his presence, according to his guilt, with a certain number of blows. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Forty blows he may give him and no more, lest he should exceed this and beat him with many blows above these, and your brother be humiliated in your sight. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If brothers dwell together, and one of them dies and has no son, the widow of the dead man shall not be married to a stranger outside the family; her husband's brother shall go in to her, take her as his wife, and perform the duty of a husband's brother to her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it shall be that the firstborn son which she bears will succeed to the name of his dead brother, that his name may not be blotted out of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But if the man does not want to take his brother's wife, then let his brother's wife go up to the gate to the elders, and say, "My husband's brother refuses to raise up a name to his brother in Israel; he will not perform the duty of my husband's brother.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the elders of his city shall call him and speak to him. But if he stands firm and says, "I do not want to take her,' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then his brother's wife shall come to him in the presence of the elders, remove his sandal from his foot, spit in his face, and answer and say, "So shall it be done to the man who will not build up his brother's house.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And his name shall be called in Israel, "The house of him who had his sandal removed.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If two men fight together, and the wife of one draws near to rescue her husband from the hand of the one attacking him, and puts out her hand and seizes him by the genitals, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall cut off her hand; your eye shall not pity her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall not have in your bag differing weights, a heavy and a light. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall not have in your house differing measures, a large and a small. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall have a perfect and just weight, a perfect and just measure, that your days may be lengthened in the land which the LORD your God is giving you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For all who do such things, all who behave unrighteously, are an abomination to the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Remember what Amalek did to you on the way as you were coming out of Egypt, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 how he met you on the way and attacked your rear ranks, all the stragglers at your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 rear, when you were tired and weary; and he did not fear God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore it shall be, when the LORD your God has given you rest from your enemies all around, in the land which the LORD your God is giving you to possess as an inheritance, that you will blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. You shall not forget. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 26
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "And it shall be, when you come into the land which the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance, and you possess it and dwell in it, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that you shall take some of the first of all the produce of the ground, which you shall bring from your land that the LORD your God is giving you, and put it in a basket and go to the place where the LORD your God chooses to make His name abide. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall go to the one who is priest in those days, and say to him, "I declare today to the LORD your God that I have come to the country which the LORD swore to our fathers to give us.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then the priest shall take the basket out of your hand and set it down before the altar of the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall answer and say before the LORD your God: "My father was a Syrian, about to perish, and he went down to Egypt and dwelt there, few in number; and there he became a nation, great, mighty, and populous. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the Egyptians mistreated us, afflicted us, and laid hard bondage on us.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then we cried out to the LORD God of our fathers, and the LORD heard our voice 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 and looked on our affliction and our labor and our oppression. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand and with an outstretched arm, with great terror and with signs and wonders. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He has brought us to this place and has given us this land, "a land flowing with milk and honey"; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and now, behold, I have brought the firstfruits of the land which you, O LORD, have given me.' "Then you shall set it before the LORD your God, and worship before the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So you shall rejoice in every good thing which the LORD your God has given to you and your house, you and the Levite and the stranger who is among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "When you have finished laying aside all the tithe of your increase in the third year-- the year of tithing--and have given it to the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, so that they may eat within your gates and be filled, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall say before the LORD your God: "I have removed the holy tithe from my house, and also have given them to the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, according to all Your commandments which You have commanded me; I have not transgressed Your commandments, nor have I forgotten them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I have not eaten any of it when in mourning, nor have I removed any of it for an unclean use, nor given any of it for the dead. I have obeyed the voice of the LORD my God, and have done according to all that You have commanded me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Look down from Your holy habitation, from heaven, and bless Your people Israel and the land which You have given us, just as You swore to our fathers, "a land flowing with milk and honey."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "This day the LORD your God commands you to observe these statutes and judgments; therefore you shall be careful to observe them with all your heart and with all your soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Today you have proclaimed the LORD to be your God, and that you will walk in His ways and keep His statutes, His commandments, and His judgments, and that you will obey His voice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also today the LORD has proclaimed you to be His special people, just as He promised you, that you should keep all His commandments, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and that He will set you high above all nations which He has made, in praise, in name, and in honor, and that you may be a holy people to the LORD your God, just as He has spoken." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 27
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now Moses, with the elders of Israel, commanded the people, saying: "Keep all the commandments which I command you today. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it shall be, on the day when you cross over the Jordan to the land which the LORD your God is giving you, that you shall set up for yourselves large stones, and whitewash them with lime. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall write on them all the words of this law, when you have crossed over, that you may enter the land which the LORD your God is giving you, "a land flowing with milk and honey,' just as the LORD God of your fathers promised you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore it shall be, when you have crossed over the Jordan, that on Mount Ebal you shall set up these stones, which I command you today, and you shall whitewash them with lime. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And there you shall build an altar to the LORD your God, an altar of stones; you shall not use an iron tool on them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall build with whole stones the altar of the LORD your God, and offer burnt offerings on it to the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall offer peace offerings, and shall eat there, and rejoice before the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall write very plainly on the stones all the words of this law."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Moses and the priests, the Levites, spoke to all Israel, saying, "Take heed and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 listen, O Israel: This day you have become the people of the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore you shall obey the voice of the LORD your God, and observe His commandments and His statutes which I command you today." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Moses commanded the people on the same day, saying,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "These shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people, when you have crossed 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 over the Jordan: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and these shall stand on Mount Ebal to curse: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And the Levites shall speak with a loud voice and say to all the men of Israel: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who makes a carved or molded image, an abomination to the LORD, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and sets it up in secret.' "And all the people shall answer and say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who treats his father or his mother with contempt.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who moves his neighbor's landmark.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who makes the blind to wander off the road.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who perverts the justice due the stranger, the fatherless, and widow.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who lies with his father's wife, because he has uncovered his father's bed.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who lies with any kind of animal.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who lies with his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who lies with his mother-in-law.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who attacks his neighbor secretly.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who takes a bribe to slay an innocent person.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed is the one who does not confirm all the words of this law.' "And all the people shall say, "Amen!"' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 28
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Now it shall come to pass, if you diligently obey the voice of the LORD your God, to observe carefully all His commandments which I command you today, that 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the LORD your God will set you high above all nations of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you, because you obey the voice of the LORD your God: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the country.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Blessed shall be the fruit of your body, the produce of your ground and the increase 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 of your herds, the increase of your cattle and the offspring of your flocks. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Blessed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The LORD will cause your enemies who rise against you to be defeated before your face; they shall come out against you one way and flee before you seven ways. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The LORD will command the blessing on you in your storehouses and in all to which you set your hand, and He will bless you in the land which the LORD your God is giving you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The LORD will establish you as a holy people to Himself, just as He has sworn to you, if you keep the commandments of the LORD your God and walk in His ways. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then all peoples of the earth shall see that you are called by the name of the LORD, and they shall be afraid of you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD will grant you plenty of goods, in the fruit of your body, in the increase of your livestock, and in the produce of your ground, in the land of which the LORD swore to your fathers to give you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will open to you His good treasure, the heavens, to give the rain to your land in its season, and to bless all the work of your hand. You shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD will make you the head and not the tail; you shall be above only, and not be beneath, if you heed the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you today, and are careful to observe them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So you shall not turn aside from any of the words which I command you this day, to the right or the left, to go after other gods to serve them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "But it shall come to pass, if you do not obey the voice of the LORD your God, to observe carefully all His commandments and His statutes which I command you today, that all these curses will come upon you and overtake you: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the country. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed shall be your basket and your kneading bowl. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed shall be the fruit of your body and the produce of your land, the increase of your cattle and the offspring of your flocks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The LORD will send on you cursing, confusion, and rebuke in all that you set your hand to do, until you are destroyed and until you perish quickly, because of the wickedness of your doings in which you have forsaken Me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will make the plague cling to you until He has consumed you from the land which you are going to possess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will strike you with consumption, with fever, with inflammation, with severe burning fever, with the sword, with scorching, and with mildew; they shall pursue you until you perish. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And your heavens which are over your head shall be bronze, and the earth which is under you shall be iron. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will change the rain of your land to powder and dust; from the heaven it shall come down on you until you are destroyed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The LORD will cause you to be defeated before your enemies; you shall go out one way against them and flee seven ways before them; and you shall become troublesome to all the kingdoms of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your carcasses shall be food for all the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth, and no one shall frighten them away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will strike you with the boils of Egypt, with tumors, with the scab, and with the itch, from which you cannot be healed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will strike you with madness and blindness and confusion of heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall grope at noonday, as a blind man gropes in darkness; you shall not prosper in your ways; you shall be only oppressed and plundered continually, and no one shall save you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall betroth a wife, but another man shall lie with her; you shall build a house, but you shall not dwell in it; you shall plant a vineyard, but shall not gather its grapes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your ox shall be slaughtered before your eyes, but you shall not eat of it; your donkey shall be violently taken away from before you, and shall not be restored to you; your sheep shall be given to your enemies, and you shall have no one to rescue them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people, and your eyes shall look and fail with longing for them all day long; and there shall be no strength in your hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 A nation whom you have not known shall eat the fruit of your land and the produce of your labor, and you shall be only oppressed and crushed continually. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So you shall be driven mad because of the sight which your eyes see. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will strike you in the knees and on the legs with severe boils which cannot be healed, and from the sole of your foot to the top of your head. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The LORD will bring you and the king whom you set over you to a nation which neither you nor your fathers have known, and there you shall serve other gods--wood and stone. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword among all nations where the LORD will drive you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "You shall carry much seed out to the field but gather little in, for the locust shall consume it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall plant vineyards and tend them, but you shall neither drink of the wine nor gather the grapes; for the worms shall eat them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall have olive trees throughout all your territory, but you shall not anoint yourself with the oil; for your olives shall drop off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall beget sons and daughters, but they shall not be yours; for they shall go into captivity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Locusts shall consume all your trees and the produce of your land.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The alien who is among you shall rise higher and higher above you, and you shall 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 come down lower and lower. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He shall lend to you, but you shall not lend to him; he shall be the head, and you shall be the tail. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Moreover all these curses shall come upon you and pursue and overtake you, until you are destroyed, because you did not obey the voice of the LORD your God, to keep His commandments and His statutes which He commanded you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they shall be upon you for a sign and a wonder, and on your descendants forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Because you did not serve the LORD your God with joy and gladness of heart, for the abundance of everything, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 therefore you shall serve your enemies, whom the LORD will send against you, in hunger, in thirst, in nakedness, and in need of everything; and He will put a yoke of iron on your neck until He has destroyed you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will bring a nation against you from afar, from the end of the earth, as swift as the eagle flies, a nation whose language you will not understand, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 a nation of fierce countenance, which does not respect the elderly nor show favor to the young. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they shall eat the increase of your livestock and the produce of your land, until you are destroyed; they shall not leave you grain or new wine or oil, or the increase of your cattle or the offspring of your flocks, until they have destroyed you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "They shall besiege you at all your gates until your high and fortified walls, in which you trust, come down throughout all your land; and they shall besiege you at all your gates throughout all your land which the LORD your God has given you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 53
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall eat the fruit of your own body, the flesh of your sons and your daughters whom the LORD your God has given you, in the siege and desperate straits in which your enemy shall distress you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 54
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sensitive and very refined man among you will be hostile toward his brother, toward the wife of his bosom, and toward the rest of his children whom he leaves behind, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 55
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 so that he will not give any of them the flesh of his children whom he will eat, because he has nothing left in the siege and desperate straits in which your enemy shall distress you at all your gates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 56
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The tender and delicate woman among you, who would not venture to set the sole of her foot on the ground because of her delicateness and sensitivity, will refuse to the husband of her bosom, and to her son and her daughter, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 57
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 her placenta which comes out from between her feet and her children whom she bears; for she will eat them secretly for lack of everything in the siege and desperate straits in which your enemy shall distress you at all your gates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 58
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "If you do not carefully observe all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and awesome name, THE LORD YOUR GOD, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 59
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then the LORD will bring upon you and your descendants extraordinary plagues-- great and prolonged plagues--and serious and prolonged sicknesses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 60
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Moreover He will bring back on you all the diseases of Egypt, of which you were afraid, and they shall cling to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 61
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also every sickness and every plague, which is not written in this Book of the Law, will the LORD bring upon you until you are destroyed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 62
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall be left few in number, whereas you were as the stars of heaven in multitude, because you would not obey the voice of the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 63
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it shall be, that just as the LORD rejoiced over you to do you good and multiply you, so the LORD will rejoice over you to destroy you and bring you to nothing; and you shall be plucked from off the land which you go to possess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 64
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Then the LORD will scatter you among all peoples, from one end of the earth to the other, and there you shall serve other gods, which neither you nor your fathers have known--wood and stone. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 65
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And among those nations you shall find no rest, nor shall the sole of your foot have a resting place; but there the LORD will give you a trembling heart, failing eyes, and anguish of soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 66
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your life shall hang in doubt before you; you shall fear day and night, and have no assurance of life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 67
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 In the morning you shall say, "Oh, that it were evening!' And at evening you shall say, "Oh, that it were morning!' because of the fear which terrifies your heart, and because of the sight which your eyes see. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 68
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And the LORD will take you back to Egypt in ships, by the way of which I said to you, "You shall never see it again.' And there you shall be offered for sale to your enemies as male and female slaves, but no one will buy you." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 29
\b0\fs26 \cf3 These are the words of the covenant which the LORD commanded Moses to make with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, besides the covenant which He 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 made with them in Horeb. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Moses called all Israel and said to them: "You have seen all that the LORD did before your eyes in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh and to all his servants and to all his land-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the great trials which your eyes have seen, the signs, and those great wonders. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Yet the LORD has not given you a heart to perceive and eyes to see and ears to hear, to this very day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I have led you forty years in the wilderness. Your clothes have not worn out on you, and your sandals have not worn out on your feet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You have not eaten bread, nor have you drunk wine or similar drink, that you may know that I am the LORD your God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when you came to this place, Sihon king of Heshbon and Og king of Bashan came out against us to battle, and we conquered them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 We took their land and gave it as an inheritance to the Reubenites, to the Gadites, and to half the tribe of Manasseh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore keep the words of this covenant, and do them, that you may prosper in all that you do. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "All of you stand today before the LORD your God: your leaders and your tribes and your elders and your officers, all the men of Israel, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 your little ones and your wives--also the stranger who is in your camp, from the one who cuts your wood to the one who draws your water-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that you may enter into covenant with the LORD your God, and into His oath, which the LORD your God makes with you today, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that He may establish you today as a people for Himself, and that He may be God to you, just as He has spoken to you, and just as He has sworn to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "I make this covenant and this oath, not with you alone,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but with him who stands here with us today before the LORD our God, as well as 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 with him who is not here with us today 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 (for you know that we dwelt in the land of Egypt and that we came through the nations which you passed by, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and you saw their abominations and their idols which were among them--wood and stone and silver and gold); 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 so that there may not be among you man or woman or family or tribe, whose heart turns away today from the LORD our God, to go and serve the gods of these nations, and that there may not be among you a root bearing bitterness or wormwood; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and so it may not happen, when he hears the words of this curse, that he blesses himself in his heart, saying, "I shall have peace, even though I follow the dictates of my heart'--as though the drunkard could be included with the sober. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The LORD would not spare him; for then the anger of the LORD and His jealousy would burn against that man, and every curse that is written in this book would settle on him, and the LORD would blot out his name from under heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD would separate him from all the tribes of Israel for adversity, according to all the curses of the covenant that are written in this Book of the Law, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 so that the coming generation of your children who rise up after you, and the foreigner who comes from a far land, would say, when they see the plagues of that land and the sicknesses which the LORD has laid on it: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The whole land is brimstone, salt, and burning; it is not sown, nor does it bear, nor does any grass grow there, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim, which the LORD overthrew in His anger and His wrath.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 All nations would say, "Why has the LORD done so to this land? What does the heat of this great anger mean?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then people would say: "Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD God of their fathers, which He made with them when He brought them out of the land of Egypt; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 for they went and served other gods and worshiped them, gods that they did not know and that He had not given to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the anger of the LORD was aroused against this land, to bring on it every curse that is written in this book. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD uprooted them from their land in anger, in wrath, and in great indignation, and cast them into another land, as it is this day.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The secret things belong to the LORD our God, but those things which are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 30
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Now it shall come to pass, when all these things come upon you, the blessing and the curse which I have set before you, and you call them to mind among all the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 nations where the LORD your God drives you, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and you return to the LORD your God and obey His voice, according to all that I command you today, you and your children, with all your heart and with all your soul, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that the LORD your God will bring you back from captivity, and have compassion on you, and gather you again from all the nations where the LORD your God has scattered you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If any of you are driven out to the farthest parts under heaven, from there the LORD your God will gather you, and from there He will bring you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD your God will bring you to the land which your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it. He will prosper you and multiply you more than your fathers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your descendants, to love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Also the LORD your God will put all these curses on your enemies and on those who hate you, who persecuted you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you will again obey the voice of the LORD and do all His commandments which I command you today. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD your God will make you abound in all the work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, in the increase of your livestock, and in the produce of your land for good. For the LORD will again rejoice over you for good as He rejoiced over your fathers, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 if you obey the voice of the LORD your God, to keep His commandments and His statutes which are written in this Book of the Law, and if you turn to the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "For this commandment which I command you today is not too mysterious for you, nor is it far off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 It is not in heaven, that you should say, "Who will ascend into heaven for us and bring it to us, that we may hear it and do it?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Nor is it beyond the sea, that you should say, "Who will go over the sea for us and bring it to us, that we may hear it and do it?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the word is very near you, in your mouth and in your heart, that you may do it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "See, I have set before you today life and good, death and evil, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 in that I command you today to love the LORD your God, to walk in His ways, and to keep His commandments, His statutes, and His judgments, that you may live and multiply; and the LORD your God will bless you in the land which you go to possess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But if your heart turns away so that you do not hear, and are drawn away, and worship other gods and serve them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I announce to you today that you shall surely perish; you shall not prolong your days in the land which you cross over the Jordan to go in and possess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I call heaven and earth as witnesses today against you, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing; therefore choose life, that both you and your descendants may live; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that you may love the LORD your God, that you may obey His voice, and that you may cling to Him, for He is your life and the length of your days; and that you may dwell in the land which the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give them." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 31
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then Moses went and spoke these words to all Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said to them: "I am one hundred and twenty years old today. I can no longer go out and come in. Also the LORD has said to me, "You shall not cross over this Jordan.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD your God Himself crosses over before you; He will destroy these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess them. Joshua himself crosses over before you, just as the LORD has said. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD will do to them as He did to Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites and their land, when He destroyed them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will give them over to you, that you may do to them according to every commandment which I have commanded you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Be strong and of good courage, do not fear nor be afraid of them; for the LORD your God, He is the One who goes with you. He will not leave you nor forsake you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Moses called Joshua and said to him in the sight of all Israel, "Be strong and of good courage, for you must go with this people to the land which the LORD has sworn to their fathers to give them, and you shall cause them to inherit it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD, He is the One who goes before you. He will be with you, He will not leave you nor forsake you; do not fear nor be dismayed." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Moses wrote this law and delivered it to the priests, the sons of Levi, who bore the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and to all the elders of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Moses commanded them, saying: "At the end of every seven years, at the appointed time in the year of release, at the Feast of Tabernacles, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 when all Israel comes to appear before the LORD your God in the place which He chooses, you shall read this law before all Israel in their hearing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Gather the people together, men and women and little ones, and the stranger who is within your gates, that they may hear and that they may learn to fear the LORD your God and carefully observe all the words of this law, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and that their children, who have not known it, may hear and learn to fear the LORD your God as long as you live in the land which you cross the Jordan to possess." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD said to Moses, "Behold, the days approach when you must die; call Joshua, and present yourselves in the tabernacle of meeting, that I may inaugurate him." So Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves in the tabernacle of meeting. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the LORD appeared at the tabernacle in a pillar of cloud, and the pillar of cloud stood above the door of the tabernacle. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said to Moses: "Behold, you will rest with your fathers; and this people will rise and play the harlot with the gods of the foreigners of the land, where they go to be among them, and they will forsake Me and break My covenant which I have made with them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then My anger shall be aroused against them in that day, and I will forsake them, and I will hide My face from them, and they shall be devoured. And many evils and troubles shall befall them, so that they will say in that day, "Have not these evils come upon us because our God is not among us?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I will surely hide My face in that day because of all the evil which they have done, in that they have turned to other gods. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Now therefore, write down this song for yourselves, and teach it to the children of Israel; put it in their mouths, that this song may be a witness for Me against the children of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When I have brought them to the land flowing with milk and honey, of which I swore to their fathers, and they have eaten and filled themselves and grown fat, then they will turn to other gods and serve them; and they will provoke Me and break My covenant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then it shall be, when many evils and troubles have come upon them, that this song will testify against them as a witness; for it will not be forgotten in the mouths of their descendants, for I know the inclination of their behavior today, even before I have brought them to the land of which I swore to give them." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore Moses wrote this song the same day, and taught it to the children of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then He inaugurated Joshua the son of Nun, and said, "Be strong and of good courage; for you shall bring the children of Israel into the land of which I swore to them, and I will be with you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it was, when Moses had completed writing the words of this law in a book, when they were finished, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that Moses commanded the Levites, who bore the ark of the covenant of the LORD, saying: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Take this Book of the Law, and put it beside the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, that it may be there as a witness against you; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 for I know your rebellion and your stiff neck. If today, while I am yet alive with you, you have been rebellious against the LORD, then how much more after my death? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Gather to me all the elders of your tribes, and your officers, that I may speak these words in their hearing and call heaven and earth to witness against them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For I know that after my death you will become utterly corrupt, and turn aside from the way which I have commanded you. And evil will befall you in the latter days, because you will do evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke Him to anger through the work of your hands." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Moses spoke in the hearing of all the assembly of Israel the words of this song until they were ended: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 32
\b0\fs26 \cf3 "Give ear, O heavens, and I will speak; And hear, O earth, the words of my mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Let my teaching drop as the rain, My speech distill as the dew, As raindrops on the tender herb, And as showers on the grass. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For I proclaim the name of the LORD: Ascribe greatness to our God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He is the Rock, His work is perfect; For all His ways are justice, A God of truth and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 without injustice; Righteous and upright is He. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "They have corrupted themselves; They are not His children, Because of their blemish: A perverse and crooked generation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Do you thus deal with the LORD, O foolish and unwise people? Is He not your Father, who bought you? Has He not made you and established you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Remember the days of old, Consider the years of many generations. Ask your father, and he will show you; Your elders, and they will tell you: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When the Most High divided their inheritance to the nations, When He separated the sons of Adam, He set the boundaries of the peoples According to the number of the children of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD's portion is His people; Jacob is the place of His inheritance.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "He found him in a desert land And in the wasteland, a howling wilderness; He 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 encircled him, He instructed him, He kept him as the apple of His eye. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 As an eagle stirs up its nest, Hovers over its young, Spreading out its wings, taking them up, Carrying them on its wings, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the LORD alone led him, And there was no foreign god with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "He made him ride in the heights of the earth, That he might eat the produce of the fields; He made him draw honey from the rock, And oil from the flinty rock; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Curds from the cattle, and milk of the flock, With fat of lambs; And rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats, With the choicest wheat; And you drank wine, the blood of the grapes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "But Jeshurun grew fat and kicked; You grew fat, you grew thick, You are obese! Then he forsook God who made him, And scornfully esteemed the Rock of his salvation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They provoked Him to jealousy with foreign gods; With abominations they provoked Him to anger. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They sacrificed to demons, not to God, To gods they did not know, To new gods, new arrivals That your fathers did not fear. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Of the Rock who begot you, you are unmindful, And have forgotten the God who fathered you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And when the LORD saw it, He spurned them, Because of the provocation of His sons and His daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He said: "I will hide My face from them, I will see what their end will be, For they are a perverse generation, Children in whom is no faith. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They have provoked Me to jealousy by what is not God; They have moved Me to anger by their foolish idols. But I will provoke them to jealousy by those who are not a nation; I will move them to anger by a foolish nation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For a fire is kindled in My anger, And shall burn to the lowest hell; It shall consume the earth with her increase, And set on fire the foundations of the mountains. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "I will heap disasters on them; I will spend My arrows on them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They shall be wasted with hunger, Devoured by pestilence and bitter destruction; I will also send against them the teeth of beasts, With the poison of serpents of the dust. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sword shall destroy outside; There shall be terror within For the young man and virgin, The nursing child with the man of gray hairs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I would have said, "I will dash them in pieces, I will make the memory of them to cease from among men," 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Had I not feared the wrath of the enemy, Lest their adversaries should misunderstand, Lest they should say, "Our hand is high; And it is not the LORD who has done all this."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "For they are a nation void of counsel, Nor is there any understanding in them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that they were wise, that they understood this, That they would consider their 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 latter end! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 How could one chase a thousand, And two put ten thousand to flight, Unless their Rock had sold them, And the LORD had surrendered them? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For their rock is not like our Rock, Even our enemies themselves being judges. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For their vine is of the vine of Sodom And of the fields of Gomorrah; Their grapes 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 are grapes of gall, Their clusters are bitter. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Their wine is the poison of serpents, And the cruel venom of cobras. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Is this not laid up in store with Me, Sealed up among My treasures? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Vengeance is Mine, and recompense; Their foot shall slip in due time; For the day of their calamity is at hand, And the things to come hasten upon them.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "For the LORD will judge His people And have compassion on His servants, When He sees that their power is gone, And there is no one remaining, bond or free. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He will say: "Where are their gods, The rock in which they sought refuge?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Who ate the fat of their sacrifices, And drank the wine of their drink offering? Let 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 them rise and help you, And be your refuge. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Now see that I, even I, am He, And there is no God besides Me; I kill and I make alive; I wound and I heal; Nor is there any who can deliver from My hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For I raise My hand to heaven, And say, "As I live forever,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If I whet My glittering sword, And My hand takes hold on judgment, I will render 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 vengeance to My enemies, And repay those who hate Me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I will make My arrows drunk with blood, And My sword shall devour flesh, With the blood of the slain and the captives, From the heads of the leaders of the enemy."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Rejoice, O Gentiles, with His people; For He will avenge the blood of His servants, And render vengeance to His adversaries; He will provide atonement for His land and His people." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Moses came with Joshua the son of Nun and spoke all the words of this song in the hearing of the people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Moses finished speaking all these words to all Israel, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and he said to them: "Set your hearts on all the words which I testify among you today, which you shall command your children to be careful to observe--all the words of this law. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For it is not a futile thing for you, because it is your life, and by this word you shall prolong your days in the land which you cross over the Jordan to possess." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD spoke to Moses that very same day, saying: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Go up this mountain of the Abarim, Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, across from Jericho; view the land of Canaan, which I give to the children of Israel as a possession; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and die on the mountain which you ascend, and be gathered to your people, just as Aaron your brother died on Mount Hor and was gathered to his people; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 because you trespassed against Me among the children of Israel at the waters of Meribah Kadesh, in the Wilderness of Zin, because you did not hallow Me in the midst of the children of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Yet you shall see the land before you, though you shall not go there, into the land which I am giving to the children of Israel." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 33
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now this is the blessing with which Moses the man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said: "The LORD came from Sinai, And dawned on them from Seir; He shone forth from Mount Paran, And He came with ten thousands of saints; From His right hand Came a fiery law for them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Yes, He loves the people; All His saints are in Your hand; They sit down at Your feet; everyone receives Your words. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Moses commanded a law for us, A heritage of the congregation of Jacob.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He was King in Jeshurun, When the leaders of the people were gathered, All 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the tribes of Israel together. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Let Reuben live, and not die, Nor let his men be few." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And this he said of Judah: "Hear, LORD, the voice of Judah, And bring him to his people; Let his hands be sufficient for him, And may You be a help against his enemies." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And of Levi he said: "Let Your Thummim and Your Urim be with Your holy one, Whom You tested at Massah, And with whom You contended at the waters of Meribah, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Who says of his father and mother, "I have not seen them'; Nor did he acknowledge his brothers, Or know his own children; For they have observed Your word And kept Your covenant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They shall teach Jacob Your judgments, And Israel Your law. They shall put incense before You, And a whole burnt sacrifice on Your altar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Bless his substance, LORD, And accept the work of his hands; Strike the loins of those who rise against him, And of those who hate him, that they rise not again." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Of Benjamin he said: "The beloved of the LORD shall dwell in safety by Him, Who shelters him all the day long; And he shall dwell between His shoulders." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And of Joseph he said: "Blessed of the LORD is his land, With the precious things of heaven, with the dew, And the deep lying beneath, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 With the precious fruits of the sun, With the precious produce of the months,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 With the best things of the ancient mountains, With the precious things of the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 everlasting hills, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 With the precious things of the earth and its fullness, And the favor of Him who dwelt in the bush. Let the blessing come "on the head of Joseph, And on the crown of the head of him who was separate from his brothers.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 His glory is like a firstborn bull, And his horns like the horns of the wild ox; Together with them He shall push the peoples To the ends of the earth; They are the ten thousands of Ephraim, And they are the thousands of Manasseh." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And of Zebulun he said: "Rejoice, Zebulun, in your going out, And Issachar in your tents! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They shall call the peoples to the mountain; There they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness; For they shall partake of the abundance of the seas And of treasures hidden in the sand." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And of Gad he said: "Blessed is he who enlarges Gad; He dwells as a lion, And tears the arm and the crown of his head. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He provided the first part for himself, Because a lawgiver's portion was reserved there. He came with the heads of the people; He administered the justice of the LORD, And His judgments with Israel." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And of Dan he said: "Dan is a lion's whelp; He shall leap from Bashan."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And of Naphtali he said: "O Naphtali, satisfied with favor, And full of the blessing of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the LORD, Possess the west and the south." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And of Asher he said: "Asher is most blessed of sons; Let him be favored by his brothers, And let him dip his foot in oil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your sandals shall be iron and bronze; As your days, so shall your strength be. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "There is no one like the God of Jeshurun, Who rides the heavens to help you, And 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 in His excellency on the clouds. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The eternal God is your refuge, And underneath are the everlasting arms; He will thrust out the enemy from before you, And will say, "Destroy!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Israel shall dwell in safety, The fountain of Jacob alone, In a land of grain and new wine; His heavens shall also drop dew. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Happy are you, O Israel! Who is like you, a people saved by the LORD, The shield of your help And the sword of your majesty! Your enemies shall submit to you, And you shall tread down their high places." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 34
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then Moses went up from the plains of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, which is across from Jericho. And the LORD showed him all the land of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Gilead as far as Dan, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 all Naphtali and the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, all the land of Judah as far as the Western Sea, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the South, and the plain of the Valley of Jericho, the city of palm trees, as far as Zoar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD said to him, "This is the land of which I swore to give Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, "I will give it to your descendants.' I have caused you to see it with your eyes, but you shall not cross over there." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Moses the servant of the LORD died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, opposite Beth Peor; but no one knows his grave to this day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Moses was one hundred and twenty years old when he died. His eyes were not dim nor his natural vigor diminished. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the children of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days. So the days of weeping and mourning for Moses ended. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had laid his hands on him; so the children of Israel heeded him, and did as the LORD had commanded Moses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But since then there has not arisen in Israel a prophet like Moses, whom the LORD knew face to face, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 in all the signs and wonders which the LORD sent him to do in the land of Egypt, before Pharaoh, before all his servants, and in all his land, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and by all that mighty power and all the great terror which Moses performed in the sight of all Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \
}