{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red190\green0\blue4;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c39608\c80000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c80000\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ephesians 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, To the saints who are in Ephesus, and faithful in Christ Jesus: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 just as He chose us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before Him in love, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 having predestined us to adoption as sons by Jesus Christ to Himself, according to the good pleasure of His will, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to the praise of the glory of His grace, by which He made us accepted in the Beloved. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In Him we have redemption through His blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the riches of His grace\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 which He made to abound toward us in all wisdom and prudence, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 having made known to us the mystery of His will, according to His good pleasure which He purposed in Himself, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that in the dispensation of the fullness of the times He might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth--in Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In Him also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestined according to the purpose of Him who works all things according to the counsel of His will, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that we who first trusted in Christ should be to the praise of His glory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In Him you also trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation; in whom also, having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who is the guarantee of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, to the praise of His glory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love for all the saints, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 do not cease to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give to you the spirit 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 the eyes of your understanding being enlightened; that you may know what is the hope of His calling, what are the riches of the glory of His inheritance in the saints, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and what is the exceeding greatness of His power toward us who believe, according to the working of His mighty power 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 which He worked in Christ when He raised Him from the dead and seated Him at His right hand in the heavenly places, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 far above all principality and power and might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this age but also in that which is to come. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He put all things under His feet, and gave Him to be head over all things to the church, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 which is His body, the fullness of Him who fills all in all.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 2
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 And you He made alive, who were dead in trespasses and sins, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 in which you once walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the sons of disobedience, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 among whom also we all once conducted ourselves in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, just as the others. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But God, who is rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved), 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and raised us up together, and made us sit together in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that in the ages to come He might show the exceeding riches of His grace in His kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For by grace you have been saved through faith, and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 not of works, lest anyone should boast.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore remember that you, once Gentiles in the flesh--who are called Uncircumcision by what is called the Circumcision made in the flesh by hands-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that at that time you were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But now in Christ Jesus you who once were far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He Himself is our peace, who has made both one, and has broken down the middle wall of separation, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 having abolished in His flesh the enmity, that is, the law of commandments contained in ordinances, so as to create in Himself one new man from the two, thus making peace, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and that He might reconcile them both to God in one body through the cross, thereby putting to death the enmity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He came and preached peace to you who were afar off and to those who were near. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For through Him we both have access by one Spirit to the Father. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now, therefore, you are no longer strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ Himself being the chief cornerstone, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 in whom the whole building, being fitted together, grows into a holy temple in the Lord, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 in whom you also are being built together for a dwelling place of God in the Spirit. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 3
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for you Gentiles-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 if indeed you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which was given to me for you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 how that by revelation He made known to me the mystery (as I have briefly written already, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 by which, when you read, you may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ), 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 which in other ages was not made known to the sons of men, as it has now been revealed by the Spirit to His holy apostles and prophets: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs, of the same body, and partakers of His promise in Christ through the gospel, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 of which I became a minister according to the gift of the grace of God given to me by the effective working of His power. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To me, who am less than the least of all the saints, this grace was given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and to make all see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the ages has been hidden in God who created all things through Jesus Christ; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to the intent that now the manifold wisdom of God might be made known by the church to the principalities and powers in the heavenly places, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 according to the eternal purpose which He accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through faith in Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I ask that you do not lose heart at my tribulations for you, which is your glory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this reason I bow my knees to the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 from whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that He would grant you, according to the riches of His glory, to be strengthened with might through His Spirit in the inner man, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith; that you, being rooted and grounded in love, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the width and length and depth and height-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge; that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now to Him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that works in us, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to Him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus to all generations, forever and ever. Amen. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 4
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you to walk worthy of the calling with which you were called, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 with all lowliness and gentleness, with longsuffering, bearing with one another in love, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is one body and one Spirit, just as you were called in one hope of your calling; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 one Lord, one faith, one baptism; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 one God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you all.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But to each one of us grace was given according to the measure of Christ's gift. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore He says: "When He ascended on high, He led captivity captive, And gave gifts to men." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 (Now this, "He ascended"--what does it mean but that He also first descended into the lower parts of the earth? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who descended is also the One who ascended far above all the heavens, that He might fill all things.) 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He Himself gave some to be apostles, some prophets, some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for the equipping of the saints for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 till we all come to the unity of the faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, to a perfect man, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that we should no longer be children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the trickery of men, in the cunning craftiness of deceitful plotting, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 but, speaking the truth in love, may grow up in all things into Him who is the head-- Christ-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 from whom the whole body, joined and knit together by what every joint supplies, according to the effective working by which every part does its share, causes growth of the body for the edifying of itself in love. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This I say, therefore, and testify in the Lord, that you should no longer walk as the rest of the Gentiles walk, in the futility of their mind, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God, because of the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who, being past feeling, have given themselves over to lewdness, to work all uncleanness with greediness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But you have not so learned Christ, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 if indeed you have heard Him and have been taught by Him, as the truth is in Jesus: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that you put off, concerning your former conduct, the old man which grows corrupt according to the deceitful lusts, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and be renewed in the spirit of your mind,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and that you put on the new man which was created according to God, in true 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 righteousness and holiness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, putting away lying, "Let each one of you speak truth with his neighbor," for we are members of one another. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Be angry, and do not sin": do not let the sun go down on your wrath, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 nor give place to the devil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let him who stole steal no longer, but rather let him labor, working with his hands what is good, that he may have something to give him who has need. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let no corrupt word proceed out of your mouth, but what is good for necessary edification, that it may impart grace to the hearers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let all bitterness, wrath, anger, clamor, and evil speaking be put away from you, with all malice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God in Christ forgave you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 5
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Therefore be imitators of God as dear children.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And walk in love, as Christ also has loved us and given Himself for us, an offering 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and a sacrifice to God for a sweet-smelling aroma. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not even be named among you, as is fitting for saints; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor coarse jesting, which are not fitting, but rather giving of thanks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this you know, that no fornicator, unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let no one deceive you with empty words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the sons of disobedience. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore do not be partakers with them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you were once darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 light 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 (for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness, righteousness, and truth), 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 finding out what is acceptable to the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather expose them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For it is shameful even to speak of those things which are done by them in secret. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But all things that are exposed are made manifest by the light, for whatever makes 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 manifest is light. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore He says: "Awake, you who sleep, Arise from the dead, And Christ will give you light." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 See then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools but as wise,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 redeeming the time, because the days are evil.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore do not be unwise, but understand what the will of the Lord is.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And do not be drunk with wine, in which is dissipation; but be filled with the Spirit, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 speaking to one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 giving thanks always for all things to God the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 submitting to one another in the fear of God. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wives, submit to your own husbands, as to the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the husband is head of the wife, as also Christ is head of the church; and He is the Savior of the body. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, just as the church is subject to Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Husbands, love your wives, just as Christ also loved the church and gave Himself for her, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that He might sanctify and cleanse her with the washing of water by the word,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that He might present her to Himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 any such thing, but that she should be holy and without blemish. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So husbands ought to love their own wives as their own bodies; he who loves his wife loves himself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For no one ever hated his own flesh, but nourishes and cherishes it, just as the Lord does the church. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we are members of His body, of His flesh and of His bones.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and the two shall become one flesh."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ and the church. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless let each one of you in particular so love his own wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 6
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Honor your father and mother," which is the first commandment with promise: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "that it may be well with you and you may live long on the earth."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And you, fathers, do not provoke your children to wrath, but bring them up in the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 training and admonition of the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bondservants, be obedient to those who are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in sincerity of heart, as to Christ; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 not with eyeservice, as men-pleasers, but as bondservants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 with goodwill doing service, as to the Lord, and not to men,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 knowing that whatever good anyone does, he will receive the same from the Lord, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 whether he is a slave or free. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And you, masters, do the same things to them, giving up threatening, knowing that your own Master also is in heaven, and there is no partiality with Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and in the power of His might.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the devil. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this age, against spiritual hosts of wickedness in the heavenly places. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Stand therefore, having girded your waist with truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and having shod your feet with the preparation of the gospel of peace;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 above all, taking the shield of faith with which you will be able to quench all the fiery 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 darts of the wicked one. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, being watchful to this end with all perseverance and supplication for all the saints-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and for me, that utterance may be given to me, that I may open my mouth boldly to make known the mystery of the gospel, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 for which I am an ambassador in chains; that in it I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But that you also may know my affairs and how I am doing, Tychicus, a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, will make all things known to you; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 whom I have sent to you for this very purpose, that you may know our affairs, and that he may comfort your hearts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Peace to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Grace be with all those who love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Amen. 
\f0\fs24 \
}