{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red190\green0\blue4;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\csgenericrgb\c15294\c30196\c75294;\csgenericrgb\c0\c0\c0;\csgenericrgb\c74510\c0\c1569;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 Genesis 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 1
\b0\fs26 \cf3 In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The earth was without form, and void; and darkness was on the face of the deep. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God said, "Let there be light"; and there was light. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God saw the light, that it was good; and God divided the light from the darkness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 God called the light Day, and the darkness He called Night. So the evening and the morning were the first day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God said, "Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Thus God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament; and it was so. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God called the firmament Heaven. So the evening and the morning were the second day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God said, "Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land appear"; and it was so. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God called the dry land Earth, and the gathering together of the waters He called Seas. And God saw that it was good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God said, "Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb that yields seed, and the fruit tree that yields fruit according to its kind, whose seed is in itself, on the earth"; and it was so. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the earth brought forth grass, the herb that yields seed according to its kind, and the tree that yields fruit, whose seed is in itself according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the evening and the morning were the third day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God said, "Let there be lights in the firmament of the heavens to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs and seasons, and for days and years; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and let them be for lights in the firmament of the heavens to give light on the earth"; and it was so. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God made two great lights: the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night. He made the stars also. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 God set them in the firmament of the heavens to give light on the earth,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 darkness. And God saw that it was good.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the evening and the morning were the fourth day. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God said, "Let the waters abound with an abundance of living creatures, and let birds fly above the earth across the face of the firmament of the heavens." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So God created great sea creatures and every living thing that moves, with which the waters abounded, according to their kind, and every winged bird according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God blessed them, saying, "Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the evening and the morning were the fifth day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God said, "Let the earth bring forth the living creature according to its kind: cattle and creeping thing and beast of the earth, each according to its kind"; and it was so. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God made the beast of the earth according to its kind, cattle according to its kind, and everything that creeps on the earth according to its kind. And God saw that it was good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God said, "Let Us make man in Our image, according to Our likeness; let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over the cattle, over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So God created man in His own image; in the image of God He created him; male and female He created them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God blessed them, and God said to them, "Be fruitful and multiply; fill the earth and subdue it; have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the air, and over every living thing that moves on the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God said, "See, I have given you every herb that yields seed which is on the face of all the earth, and every tree whose fruit yields seed; to you it shall be for food. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also, to every beast of the earth, to every bird of the air, and to everything that creeps on the earth, in which there is life, I have given every green herb for food"; and it was so. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God saw everything that He had made, and indeed it was very good. So the evening and the morning were the sixth day. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 2
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Thus the heavens and the earth, and all the host of them, were finished.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And on the seventh day God ended His work which He had done, and He rested on 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the seventh day from all His work which He had done. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because in it He rested from all His work which God had created and made. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This is the history of the heavens and the earth when they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 before any plant of the field was in the earth and before any herb of the field had grown. For the LORD God had not caused it to rain on the earth, and there was no man to till the ground; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but a mist went up from the earth and watered the whole face of the ground.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living being. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there He put the man whom He had formed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And out of the ground the LORD God made every tree grow that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now a river went out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it parted and became four riverheads. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The name of the first is Pishon; it is the one which skirts the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the gold of that land is good. Bdellium and the onyx stone are there.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The name of the second river is Gihon; it is the one which goes around the whole 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 land of Cush. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The name of the third river is Hiddekel; it is the one which goes toward the east of Assyria. The fourth river is the Euphrates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden to tend and keep it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, "Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD God said, "It is not good that man should be alone; I will make him a helper comparable to him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the field and every bird of the air, and brought them to Adam to see what he would call them. And whatever Adam called each living creature, that was its name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Adam gave names to all cattle, to the birds of the air, and to every beast of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper comparable to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall on Adam, and he slept; and He took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh in its place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the rib which the LORD God had taken from man He made into a woman, and He brought her to the man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Adam said: "This is now bone of my bones And flesh of my flesh; She shall be called Woman, Because she was taken out of Man." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 3
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now the serpent was more cunning than any beast of the field which the LORD 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 God had made. And he said to the woman, "Has God indeed said, "You shall not eat of every tree of the garden'?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the woman said to the serpent, "We may eat the fruit of the trees of the garden; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God has said, "You 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 shall not eat it, nor shall you touch it, lest you die."'\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the serpent said to the woman, "You will not surely die. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For God knows that in the day you eat of it your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. She also gave to her husband with her, and he ate. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves coverings. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they heard the sound of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God among the trees of the garden. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD God called to Adam and said to him, "Where are you?"\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he said, "I heard Your voice in the garden, and I was afraid because I was 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 naked; and I hid myself." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He said, "Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree of which I commanded you that you should not eat?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the man said, "The woman whom You gave to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I ate." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD God said to the woman, "What is this you have done?" The woman said, "The serpent deceived me, and I ate." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the LORD God said to the serpent: "Because you have done this, You are cursed more than all cattle, And more than every beast of the field; On your belly you shall go, And you shall eat dust All the days of your life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I will put enmity Between you and the woman, And between your seed and her Seed; He shall bruise your head, And you shall bruise His heel." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 To the woman He said: "I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception; In pain you shall bring forth children; Your desire shall be for your husband, And he shall rule over you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then to Adam He said, "Because you have heeded the voice of your wife, and have eaten from the tree of which I commanded you, saying, "You shall not eat of it': "Cursed is the ground for your sake; In toil you shall eat of it All the days of your life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, And you shall eat the herb of the field. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 In the sweat of your face you shall eat bread Till you return to the ground, For out of it you were taken; For dust you are, And to dust you shall return." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Adam called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also for Adam and his wife the LORD God made tunics of skin, and clothed them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD God said, "Behold, the man has become like one of Us, to know good and evil. And now, lest he put out his hand and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live forever"-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 therefore the LORD God sent him out of the garden of Eden to till the ground from which he was taken. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So He drove out the man; and He placed cherubim at the east of the garden of Eden, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to guard the way to the tree of life. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 4
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now Adam knew Eve his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, and said, "I have acquired a man from the LORD." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then she bore again, this time his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And in the process of time it came to pass that Cain brought an offering of the fruit of the ground to the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Abel also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of their fat. And the LORD respected Abel and his offering, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but He did not respect Cain and his offering. And Cain was very angry, and his countenance fell. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the LORD said to Cain, "Why are you angry? And why has your countenance fallen? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door. And its desire is for you, but you should rule over it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Cain talked with Abel his brother; and it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother and killed him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD said to Cain, "Where is Abel your brother?" He said, "I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He said, "What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood cries out to Me from the ground. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So now you are cursed from the earth, which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood from your hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When you till the ground, it shall no longer yield its strength to you. A fugitive and a vagabond you shall be on the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Cain said to the LORD, "My punishment is greater than I can bear! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Surely You have driven me out this day from the face of the ground; I shall be hidden from Your face; I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond on the earth, and it will happen that anyone who finds me will kill me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said to him, "Therefore, whoever kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold." And the LORD set a mark on Cain, lest anyone finding him should kill him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Cain went out from the presence of the LORD and dwelt in the land of Nod on the east of Eden. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. And he built a city, and called the name of the city after the name of his son--Enoch. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 To Enoch was born Irad; and Irad begot Mehujael, and Mehujael begot Methushael, and Methushael begot Lamech. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Lamech took for himself two wives: the name of one was Adah, and the name of the second was Zillah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Adah bore Jabal. He was the father of those who dwell in tents and have livestock. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 His brother's name was Jubal. He was the father of all those who play the harp and flute. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And as for Zillah, she also bore Tubal-Cain, an instructor of every craftsman in bronze and iron. And the sister of Tubal-Cain was Naamah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Lamech said to his wives: "Adah and Zillah, hear my voice; Wives of Lamech, listen to my speech! For I have killed a man for wounding me, Even a young man for hurting me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, Then Lamech seventy-sevenfold."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and named him Seth, "For God 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 has appointed another seed for me instead of Abel, whom Cain killed." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And as for Seth, to him also a son was born; and he named him Enosh. Then men began to call on the name of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 5
\b0\fs26 \cf3 This is the book of the genealogy of Adam. In the day that God created man, He made him in the likeness of God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He created them male and female, and blessed them and called them Mankind in the day they were created. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Adam lived one hundred and thirty years, and begot a son in his own likeness, after his image, and named him Seth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Seth, the days of Adam were eight hundred years; and he had sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years; and he died. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Seth lived one hundred and five years, and begot Enosh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Enosh, Seth lived eight hundred and seven years, and had sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years; and he died. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Enosh lived ninety years, and begot Cainan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Cainan, Enosh lived eight hundred and fifteen years, and had sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all the days of Enosh were nine hundred and five years; and he died. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Cainan lived seventy years, and begot Mahalalel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Mahalalel, Cainan lived eight hundred and forty years, and had sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years; and he died. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Mahalalel lived sixty-five years, and begot Jared. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Jared, Mahalalel lived eight hundred and thirty years, and had sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all the days of Mahalalel were eight hundred and ninety-five years; and he died. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Jared lived one hundred and sixty-two years, and begot Enoch. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Enoch, Jared lived eight hundred years, and had sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty-two years; and he died. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Enoch lived sixty-five years, and begot Methuselah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Methuselah, Enoch walked with God three hundred years, and had sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty-five years. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Enoch walked with God; and he was not, for God took him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Methuselah lived one hundred and eighty-seven years, and begot Lamech. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Lamech, Methuselah lived seven hundred and eighty-two years, and had sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred and sixty-nine years; and he died. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Lamech lived one hundred and eighty-two years, and had a son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he called his name Noah, saying, "This one will comfort us concerning our work and the toil of our hands, because of the ground which the LORD has cursed." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Noah, Lamech lived five hundred and ninety-five years, and had sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all the days of Lamech were seven hundred and seventy-seven years; and he died. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Noah was five hundred years old, and Noah begot Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 6
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 daughters were born to them, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that the sons of God saw the daughters of men, that they were beautiful; and they took wives for themselves of all whom they chose. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said, "My Spirit shall not strive with man forever, for he is indeed flesh; yet his days shall be one hundred and twenty years." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 There were giants on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of men and they bore children to them. Those were the mighty men who were of old, men of renown. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD was sorry that He had made man on the earth, and He was grieved in His heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the LORD said, "I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, creeping thing and birds of the air, for I am sorry that I have made them." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This is the genealogy of Noah. Noah was a just man, perfect in his generations. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Noah walked with God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Noah begot three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So God looked upon the earth, and indeed it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted their way on the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God said to Noah, "The end of all flesh has come before Me, for the earth is filled with violence through them; and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Make yourself an ark of gopherwood; make rooms in the ark, and cover it inside and outside with pitch. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And this is how you shall make it: The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, its width fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall make a window for the ark, and you shall finish it to a cubit from above; and set the door of the ark in its side. You shall make it with lower, second, and third decks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And behold, I Myself am bringing floodwaters on the earth, to destroy from under heaven all flesh in which is the breath of life; everything that is on the earth shall die. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But I will establish My covenant with you; and you shall go into the ark--you, your sons, your wife, and your sons' wives with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And of every living thing of all flesh you shall bring two of every sort into the ark, to keep them alive with you; they shall be male and female. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Of the birds after their kind, of animals after their kind, and of every creeping thing of the earth after its kind, two of every kind will come to you to keep them alive. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you shall take for yourself of all food that is eaten, and you shall gather it to yourself; and it shall be food for you and for them." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Thus Noah did; according to all that God commanded him, so he did.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 7
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then the LORD said to Noah, "Come into the ark, you and all your household, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 because I have seen that you are righteous before Me in this generation. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall take with you seven each of every clean animal, a male and his female; two each of animals that are unclean, a male and his female; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 also seven each of birds of the air, male and female, to keep the species alive on the face of all the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For after seven more days I will cause it to rain on the earth forty days and forty nights, and I will destroy from the face of the earth all living things that I have made." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Noah did according to all that the LORD commanded him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Noah was six hundred years old when the floodwaters were on the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Noah, with his sons, his wife, and his sons' wives, went into the ark because of the waters of the flood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Of clean animals, of animals that are unclean, of birds, and of everything that creeps on the earth, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 two by two they went into the ark to Noah, male and female, as God had commanded Noah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass after seven days that the waters of the flood were on the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, on that day all the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the rain was on the earth forty days and forty nights.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 On the very same day Noah and Noah's sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Noah's wife and the three wives of his sons with them, entered the ark-- 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 they and every beast after its kind, all cattle after their kind, every creeping thing that creeps on the earth after its kind, and every bird after its kind, every bird of every sort. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they went into the ark to Noah, two by two, of all flesh in which is the breath of life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So those that entered, male and female of all flesh, went in as God had commanded him; and the LORD shut him in. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the flood was on the earth forty days. The waters increased and lifted up the ark, and it rose high above the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The waters prevailed and greatly increased on the earth, and the ark moved about on the surface of the waters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the waters prevailed exceedingly on the earth, and all the high hills under the whole heaven were covered. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The waters prevailed fifteen cubits upward, and the mountains were covered.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And all flesh died that moved on the earth: birds and cattle and beasts and every 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 creeping thing that creeps on the earth, and every man. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 All in whose nostrils was the breath of the spirit of life, all that was on the dry land, died. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So He destroyed all living things which were on the face of the ground: both man and cattle, creeping thing and bird of the air. They were destroyed from the earth. Only Noah and those who were with him in the ark remained alive. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the waters prevailed on the earth one hundred and fifty days. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 8
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the animals that were with him in the ark. And God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 subsided. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The fountains of the deep and the windows of heaven were also stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the waters receded continually from the earth. At the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters decreased. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the ark rested in the seventh month, the seventeenth day of the month, on the mountains of Ararat. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month. In the tenth month, on the first day of the month, the tops of the mountains were seen. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it came to pass, at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he sent out a raven, which kept going to and fro until the waters had dried up from the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He also sent out from himself a dove, to see if the waters had receded from the face of the ground. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the dove found no resting place for the sole of her foot, and she returned into the ark to him, for the waters were on the face of the whole earth. So he put out his hand and took her, and drew her into the ark to himself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he waited yet another seven days, and again he sent the dove out from the ark. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the dove came to him in the evening, and behold, a freshly plucked olive leaf 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 was in her mouth; and Noah knew that the waters had receded from the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he waited yet another seven days and sent out the dove, which did not return again to him anymore. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass in the six hundred and first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, that the waters were dried up from the earth; and Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and indeed the surface of the ground was dry. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And in the second month, on the twenty-seventh day of the month, the earth was dried. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God spoke to Noah, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Go out of the ark, you and your wife, and your sons and your sons' wives with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Bring out with you every living thing of all flesh that is with you: birds and cattle and every creeping thing that creeps on the earth, so that they may abound on the earth, and be fruitful and multiply on the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Noah went out, and his sons and his wife and his sons' wives with him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Every animal, every creeping thing, every bird, and whatever creeps on the earth, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 according to their families, went out of the ark. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Noah built an altar to the LORD, and took of every clean animal and of every clean bird, and offered burnt offerings on the altar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD smelled a soothing aroma. Then the LORD said in His heart, "I will never again curse the ground for man's sake, although the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; nor will I again destroy every living thing as I have done. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "While the earth remains, Seedtime and harvest, Cold and heat, Winter and summer, And day and night Shall not cease." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 9
\b0\fs26 \cf3 So God blessed Noah and his sons, and said to them: "Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be on every beast of the earth, on every bird of the air, on all that move on the earth, and on all the fish of the sea. They are given into your hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Every moving thing that lives shall be food for you. I have given you all things, even as the green herbs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But you shall not eat flesh with its life, that is, its blood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Surely for your lifeblood I will demand a reckoning; from the hand of every beast I will require it, and from the hand of man. From the hand of every man's brother I will require the life of man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Whoever sheds man's blood, By man his blood shall be shed; For in the image of God He made man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And as for you, be fruitful and multiply; Bring forth abundantly in the earth And multiply in it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him, saying:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And as for Me, behold, I establish My covenant with you and with your descendants 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 after you, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and with every living creature that is with you: the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you, of all that go out of the ark, every beast of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Thus I establish My covenant with you: Never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood; never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God said: "This is the sign of the covenant which I make between Me and you, and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I set My rainbow in the cloud, and it shall be for the sign of the covenant between Me and the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 It shall be, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the rainbow shall be seen in the cloud; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and I will remember My covenant which is between Me and you and every living creature of all flesh; the waters shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The rainbow shall be in the cloud, and I will look on it to remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God said to Noah, "This is the sign of the covenant which I have established between Me and all flesh that is on the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the sons of Noah who went out of the ark were Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And Ham was the father of Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These three were the sons of Noah, and from these the whole earth was populated. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Noah began to be a farmer, and he planted a vineyard. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he drank of the wine and was drunk, and became uncovered in his tent.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 brothers outside. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid it on both their shoulders, and went backward and covered the nakedness of their father. Their faces were turned away, and they did not see their father's nakedness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had done to him. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said: "Cursed be Canaan; A servant of servants He shall be to his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 brethren." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said: "Blessed be the LORD, The God of Shem, And may Canaan be his servant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 May God enlarge Japheth, And may he dwell in the tents of Shem; And may Canaan be his servant." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years; and he died. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 10
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now this is the genealogy of the sons of Noah: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And sons were born to them after the flood. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 From these the coastland peoples of the Gentiles were separated into their lands, everyone according to his language, according to their families, into their nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Ham were Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabtechah; and the sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Cush begot Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one on the earth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He was a mighty hunter before the LORD; therefore it is said, "Like Nimrod the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 mighty hunter before the LORD." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, Erech, Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 From that land he went to Assyria and built Nineveh, Rehoboth Ir, Calah, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and Resen between Nineveh and Calah (that is the principal city). 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Mizraim begot Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, Naphtuhim,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Pathrusim, and Casluhim (from whom came the Philistines and Caphtorim). 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Canaan begot Sidon his firstborn, and Heth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the Jebusite, the Amorite, and the Girgashite; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the Hivite, the Arkite, and the Sinite; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the Arvadite, the Zemarite, and the Hamathite. Afterward the families of the Canaanites were dispersed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon as you go toward Gerar, as far as Gaza; then as you go toward Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Ham, according to their families, according to their languages, in their lands and in their nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And children were born also to Shem, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Shem were Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Aram were Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Arphaxad begot Salah, and Salah begot Eber. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 To Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Joktan begot Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Obal, Abimael, Sheba, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And their dwelling place was from Mesha as you go toward Sephar, the mountain of the east. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Shem, according to their families, according to their languages, in their lands, according to their nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the families of the sons of Noah, according to their generations, in their nations; and from these the nations were divided on the earth after the flood. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 11
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now the whole earth had one language and one speech.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 land of Shinar, and they dwelt there. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they said to one another, "Come, let us make bricks and bake them thoroughly." They had brick for stone, and they had asphalt for mortar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they said, "Come, let us build ourselves a city, and a tower whose top is in the heavens; let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad over the face of the whole earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the LORD came down to see the city and the tower which the sons of men had built. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said, "Indeed the people are one and they all have one language, and this is what they begin to do; now nothing that they propose to do will be withheld from them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Come, let Us go down and there confuse their language, that they may not understand one another's speech." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the LORD scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the earth, and they ceased building the city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore its name is called Babel, because there the LORD confused the language of all the earth; and from there the LORD scattered them abroad over the face of all the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This is the genealogy of Shem: Shem was one hundred years old, and begot Arphaxad two years after the flood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Arphaxad, Shem lived five hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Arphaxad lived thirty-five years, and begot Salah.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Salah, Arphaxad lived four hundred and three years, and begot sons 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 and daughters.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Salah lived thirty years, and begot Eber. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Eber, Salah lived four hundred and three years, and begot sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Eber lived thirty-four years, and begot Peleg.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Peleg, Eber lived four hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 daughters.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Peleg lived thirty years, and begot Reu. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Reu, Peleg lived two hundred and nine years, and begot sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Reu lived thirty-two years, and begot Serug.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Serug, Reu lived two hundred and seven years, and begot sons and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 daughters.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Serug lived thirty years, and begot Nahor. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Nahor, Serug lived two hundred years, and begot sons and daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Nahor lived twenty-nine years, and begot Terah.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 After he begot Terah, Nahor lived one hundred and nineteen years, and begot sons 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 and daughters.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Terah lived seventy years, and begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This is the genealogy of Terah: Terah begot Abram, Nahor, and Haran. Haran begot Lot. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Haran died before his father Terah in his native land, in Ur of the Chaldeans. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abram and Nahor took wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran the father of Milcah and the father of Iscah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Sarai was barren; she had no child. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Terah took his son Abram and his grandson Lot, the son of Haran, and his daughter-in-law Sarai, his son Abram's wife, and they went out with them from Ur of the Chaldeans to go to the land of Canaan; and they came to Haran and dwelt there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the days of Terah were two hundred and five years, and Terah died in Haran. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 12
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now the LORD had said to Abram: "Get out of your country, From your family 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 And from your father's house, To a land that I will show you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I will make you a great nation; I will bless you And make your name great; And you shall be a blessing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I will bless those who bless you, And I will curse him who curses you; And in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abram departed as the LORD had spoken to him, and Lot went with him. And Abram was seventy-five years old when he departed from Haran. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abram took Sarai his wife and Lot his brother's son, and all their possessions that they had gathered, and the people whom they had acquired in Haran, and they departed to go to the land of Canaan. So they came to the land of Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Abram passed through the land to the place of Shechem, as far as the terebinth tree of Moreh. And the Canaanites were then in the land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD appeared to Abram and said, "To your descendants I will give this land." And there he built an altar to the LORD, who had appeared to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he moved from there to the mountain east of Bethel, and he pitched his tent with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east; there he built an altar to the LORD and called on the name of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abram journeyed, going on still toward the South.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now there was a famine in the land, and Abram went down to Egypt to dwell there, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 for the famine was severe in the land. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, when he was close to entering Egypt, that he said to Sarai his wife, "Indeed I know that you are a woman of beautiful countenance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore it will happen, when the Egyptians see you, that they will say, "This is his wife'; and they will kill me, but they will let you live. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Please say you are my sister, that it may be well with me for your sake, and that I may live because of you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it was, when Abram came into Egypt, that the Egyptians saw the woman, that she was very beautiful. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The princes of Pharaoh also saw her and commended her to Pharaoh. And the woman was taken to Pharaoh's house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He treated Abram well for her sake. He had sheep, oxen, male donkeys, male and female servants, female donkeys, and camels. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai, Abram's wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Pharaoh called Abram and said, "What is this you have done to me? Why did you not tell me that she was your wife? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Why did you say, "She is my sister'? I might have taken her as my wife. Now therefore, here is your wife; take her and go your way." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him; and they sent him away, with his wife and all that he had. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 13
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then Abram went up from Egypt, he and his wife and all that he had, and Lot with him, to the South. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Abram was very rich in livestock, in silver, and in gold.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he went on his journey from the South as far as Bethel, to the place where his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 to the place of the altar which he had made there at first. And there Abram called on the name of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Lot also, who went with Abram, had flocks and herds and tents.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the land was not able to support them, that they might dwell together, for their 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 possessions were so great that they could not dwell together. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And there was strife between the herdsmen of Abram's livestock and the herdsmen of Lot's livestock. The Canaanites and the Perizzites then dwelt in the land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abram said to Lot, "Please let there be no strife between you and me, and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen; for we are brethren. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Is not the whole land before you? Please separate from me. If you take the left, then I will go to the right; or, if you go to the right, then I will go to the left." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Lot lifted his eyes and saw all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered everywhere (before the LORD destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah) like the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt as you go toward Zoar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Lot chose for himself all the plain of Jordan, and Lot journeyed east. And they separated from each other. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Abram dwelt in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelt in the cities of the plain and pitched his tent even as far as Sodom. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the men of Sodom were exceedingly wicked and sinful against the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said to Abram, after Lot had separated from him: "Lift your eyes now and look from the place where you are--northward, southward, eastward, and westward; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 for all the land which you see I give to you and your descendants forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I will make your descendants as the dust of the earth; so that if a man could 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 number the dust of the earth, then your descendants also could be numbered. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Arise, walk in the land through its length and its width, for I give it to you." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abram moved his tent, and went and dwelt by the terebinth trees of Mamre, which are in Hebron, and built an altar there to the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 14
\b0\fs26 \cf3 And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that they made war with Bera king of Sodom, Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar). 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 All these joined together in the Valley of Siddim (that is, the Salt Sea). 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 In the fourteenth year Chedorlaomer and the kings that were with him came and attacked the Rephaim in Ashteroth Karnaim, the Zuzim in Ham, the Emim in Shaveh Kiriathaim, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and the Horites in their mountain of Seir, as far as El Paran, which is by the wilderness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they turned back and came to En Mishpat (that is, Kadesh), and attacked all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites who dwelt in Hazezon Tamar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the king of Sodom, the king of Gomorrah, the king of Admah, the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (that is, Zoar) went out and joined together in battle in the Valley of Siddim 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 against Chedorlaomer king of Elam, Tidal king of nations, Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar--four kings against five. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the Valley of Siddim was full of asphalt pits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled; some fell there, and the remainder fled to the mountains. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their provisions, and went their way. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They also took Lot, Abram's brother's son who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then one who had escaped came and told Abram the Hebrew, for he dwelt by the terebinth trees of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol and brother of Aner; and they were allies with Abram. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his three hundred and eighteen trained servants who were born in his own house, and went in pursuit as far as Dan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He divided his forces against them by night, and he and his servants attacked them and pursued them as far as Hobah, which is north of Damascus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he brought back all the goods, and also brought back his brother Lot and his goods, as well as the women and the people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the king of Sodom went out to meet him at the Valley of Shaveh (that is, the King's Valley), after his return from the defeat of Chedorlaomer and the kings who were with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Melchizedek king of Salem brought out bread and wine; he was the priest of God Most High. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he blessed him and said: "Blessed be Abram of God Most High, Possessor of heaven and earth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And blessed be God Most High, Who has delivered your enemies into your hand." And he gave him a tithe of all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the king of Sodom said to Abram, "Give me the persons, and take the goods for yourself." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Abram said to the king of Sodom, "I have raised my hand to the LORD, God Most High, the Possessor of heaven and earth, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that I will take nothing, from a thread to a sandal strap, and that I will not take anything that is yours, lest you should say, "I have made Abram rich'-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 except only what the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men who went with me: Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their portion." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 15
\b0\fs26 \cf3 After these things the word of the LORD came to Abram in a vision, saying, "Do not be afraid, Abram. I am your shield, your exceedingly great reward." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Abram said, "Lord GOD, what will You give me, seeing I go childless, and the heir of my house is Eliezer of Damascus?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abram said, "Look, You have given me no offspring; indeed one born in my house is my heir!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And behold, the word of the LORD came to him, saying, "This one shall not be your heir, but one who will come from your own body shall be your heir." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then He brought him outside and said, "Look now toward heaven, and count the stars if you are able to number them." And He said to him, "So shall your descendants be." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he believed in the LORD, and He accounted it to him for righteousness.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then He said to him, "I am the LORD, who brought you out of Ur of the Chaldeans, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 to give you this land to inherit it."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "Lord GOD, how shall I know that I will inherit it?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So He said to him, "Bring Me a three-year-old heifer, a three-year-old female goat, a three-year-old ram, a turtledove, and a young pigeon." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he brought all these to Him and cut them in two, down the middle, and placed each piece opposite the other; but he did not cut the birds in two. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when the vultures came down on the carcasses, Abram drove them away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and behold, horror and great darkness fell upon him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then He said to Abram: "Know certainly that your descendants will be strangers in a land that is not theirs, and will serve them, and they will afflict them four hundred years. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And also the nation whom they serve I will judge; afterward they shall come out with great possessions. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now as for you, you shall go to your fathers in peace; you shall be buried at a good old age. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But in the fourth generation they shall return here, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet complete." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, when the sun went down and it was dark, that behold, there appeared a smoking oven and a burning torch that passed between those pieces. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 On the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying: "To your descendants I have given this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the River Euphrates-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the Kenites, the Kenezzites, the Kadmonites,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Rephaim,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Girgashites, and the Jebusites." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 16
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children. And she had an Egyptian maidservant whose name was Hagar. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Sarai said to Abram, "See now, the LORD has restrained me from bearing children. Please, go in to my maid; perhaps I shall obtain children by her." And Abram heeded the voice of Sarai. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar her maid, the Egyptian, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he went in to Hagar, and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress became despised in her eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Sarai said to Abram, "My wrong be upon you! I gave my maid into your embrace; and when she saw that she had conceived, I became despised in her eyes. The LORD judge between you and me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abram said to Sarai, "Indeed your maid is in your hand; do to her as you please." And when Sarai dealt harshly with her, she fled from her presence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the Angel of the LORD found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, by the spring on the way to Shur. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He said, "Hagar, Sarai's maid, where have you come from, and where are you going?" She said, "I am fleeing from the presence of my mistress Sarai." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The Angel of the LORD said to her, "Return to your mistress, and submit yourself under her hand." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the Angel of the LORD said to her, "I will multiply your descendants exceedingly, so that they shall not be counted for multitude." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the Angel of the LORD said to her: "Behold, you are with child, And you shall bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael, Because the LORD has heard your affliction. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He shall be a wild man; His hand shall be against every man, And every man's hand against him. And he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then she called the name of the LORD who spoke to her, You-Are-the-God-Who- Sees; for she said, "Have I also here seen Him who sees me?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore the well was called Beer Lahai Roi; observe, it is between Kadesh and Bered. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Hagar bore Abram a son; and Abram named his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 17
\b0\fs26 \cf3 When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the LORD appeared to Abram and said to him, "I am Almighty God; walk before Me and be blameless. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I will make My covenant between Me and you, and will multiply you exceedingly." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "As for Me, behold, My covenant is with you, and you shall be a father of many 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 nations. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 No longer shall your name be called Abram, but your name shall be Abraham; for I have made you a father of many nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I will make you exceedingly fruitful; and I will make nations of you, and kings shall come from you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I will establish My covenant between Me and you and your descendants after you in their generations, for an everlasting covenant, to be God to you and your descendants after you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also I give to you and your descendants after you the land in which you are a stranger, all the land of Canaan, as an everlasting possession; and I will be their God." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God said to Abraham: "As for you, you shall keep My covenant, you and your descendants after you throughout their generations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This is My covenant which you shall keep, between Me and you and your descendants after you: Every male child among you shall be circumcised; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and you shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between Me and you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He who is eight days old among you shall be circumcised, every male child in your generations, he who is born in your house or bought with money from any foreigner who is not your descendant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He who is born in your house and he who is bought with your money must be circumcised, and My covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the uncircumcised male child, who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin, that person shall be cut off from his people; he has broken My covenant." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God said to Abraham, "As for Sarai your wife, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I will bless her and also give you a son by her; then I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of peoples shall be from her." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed, and said in his heart, "Shall a child be born to a man who is one hundred years old? And shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham said to God, "Oh, that Ishmael might live before You!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God said: "No, Sarah your wife shall bear you a son, and you shall call his name Isaac; I will establish My covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his descendants after him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And as for Ishmael, I have heard you. Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly. He shall beget twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But My covenant I will establish with Isaac, whom Sarah shall bear to you at this set time next year." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then He finished talking with him, and God went up from Abraham. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abraham took Ishmael his son, all who were born in his house and all who were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house, and circumcised the flesh of their foreskins that very same day, as God had said to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 That very same day Abraham was circumcised, and his son Ishmael; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and all the men of his house, born in the house or bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 18
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then the LORD appeared to him by the terebinth trees of Mamre, as he was sitting in the tent door in the heat of the day. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he lifted his eyes and looked, and behold, three men were standing by him; and when he saw them, he ran from the tent door to meet them, and bowed himself to the ground, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and said, "My Lord, if I have now found favor in Your sight, do not pass on by Your servant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Please let a little water be brought, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I will bring a morsel of bread, that you may refresh your hearts. After that you may pass by, inasmuch as you have come to your servant." They said, "Do as you have said." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah and said, "Quickly, make ready three measures of fine meal; knead it and make cakes." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham ran to the herd, took a tender and good calf, gave it to a young man, and he hastened to prepare it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he took butter and milk and the calf which he had prepared, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree as they ate. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they said to him, "Where is Sarah your wife?" So he said, "Here, in the tent." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He said, "I will certainly return to you according to the time of life, and behold, Sarah your wife shall have a son." (Sarah was listening in the tent door which was behind him.) 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Abraham and Sarah were old, well advanced in age; and Sarah had passed the age of childbearing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, "After I have grown old, shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said to Abraham, "Why did Sarah laugh, saying, "Shall I surely bear a child, since I am old?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Is anything too hard for the LORD? At the appointed time I will return to you, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Sarah denied it, saying, "I did not laugh," for she was afraid. And He said, "No, but you did laugh!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the men rose from there and looked toward Sodom, and Abraham went with them to send them on the way. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said, "Shall I hide from Abraham what I am doing,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 since Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 of the earth shall be blessed in him? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For I have known him, in order that he may command his children and his household after him, that they keep the way of the LORD, to do righteousness and justice, that the LORD may bring to Abraham what He has spoken to him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said, "Because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grave, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the outcry against it that has come to Me; and if not, I will know." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the men turned away from there and went toward Sodom, but Abraham still stood before the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham came near and said, "Would You also destroy the righteous with the wicked? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Suppose there were fifty righteous within the city; would You also destroy the place and not spare it for the fifty righteous that were in it? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Far be it from You to do such a thing as this, to slay the righteous with the wicked, so that the righteous should be as the wicked; far be it from You! Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the LORD said, "If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abraham answered and said, "Indeed now, I who am but dust and ashes have taken it upon myself to speak to the Lord: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Suppose there were five less than the fifty righteous; would You destroy all of the city for lack of five?" So He said, "If I find there forty-five, I will not destroy it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he spoke to Him yet again and said, "Suppose there should be forty found there?" So He said, "I will not do it for the sake of forty." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said, "Let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak: Suppose thirty should be found there?" So He said, "I will not do it if I find thirty there." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "Indeed now, I have taken it upon myself to speak to the Lord: Suppose twenty should be found there?" So He said, "I will not destroy it for the sake of twenty." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said, "Let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak but once more: Suppose ten should be found there?" And He said, "I will not destroy it for the sake of ten." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the LORD went His way as soon as He had finished speaking with Abraham; and Abraham returned to his place. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 19
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now the two angels came to Sodom in the evening, and Lot was sitting in the gate of Sodom. When Lot saw them, he rose to meet them, and he bowed himself 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 with his face toward the ground. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "Here now, my lords, please turn in to your servant's house and spend the night, and wash your feet; then you may rise early and go on your way." And they said, "No, but we will spend the night in the open square." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he insisted strongly; so they turned in to him and entered his house. Then he made them a feast, and baked unleavened bread, and they ate. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now before they lay down, the men of the city, the men of Sodom, both old and young, all the people from every quarter, surrounded the house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they called to Lot and said to him, "Where are the men who came to you tonight? Bring them out to us that we may know them carnally." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Lot went out to them through the doorway, shut the door behind him, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and said, "Please, my brethren, do not do so wickedly! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 See now, I have two daughters who have not known a man; please, let me bring them out to you, and you may do to them as you wish; only do nothing to these men, since this is the reason they have come under the shadow of my roof." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they said, "Stand back!" Then they said, "This one came in to stay here, and he keeps acting as a judge; now we will deal worse with you than with them." So they pressed hard against the man Lot, and came near to break down the door. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the men reached out their hands and pulled Lot into the house with them, and shut the door. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they struck the men who were at the doorway of the house with blindness, both small and great, so that they became weary trying to find the door. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the men said to Lot, "Have you anyone else here? Son-in-law, your sons, your daughters, and whomever you have in the city--take them out of this place! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For we will destroy this place, because the outcry against them has grown great before the face of the LORD, and the LORD has sent us to destroy it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Lot went out and spoke to his sons-in-law, who had married his daughters, and said, "Get up, get out of this place; for the LORD will destroy this city!" But to his sons-in-law he seemed to be joking. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When the morning dawned, the angels urged Lot to hurry, saying, "Arise, take your wife and your two daughters who are here, lest you be consumed in the punishment of the city." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And while he lingered, the men took hold of his hand, his wife's hand, and the hands of his two daughters, the LORD being merciful to him, and they brought him out and set him outside the city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it came to pass, when they had brought them outside, that he said, "Escape for your life! Do not look behind you nor stay anywhere in the plain. Escape to the mountains, lest you be destroyed." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Lot said to them, "Please, no, my lords! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Indeed now, your servant has found favor in your sight, and you have increased your mercy which you have shown me by saving my life; but I cannot escape to the mountains, lest some evil overtake me and I die. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 See now, this city is near enough to flee to, and it is a little one; please let me escape there (is it not a little one?) and my soul shall live." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said to him, "See, I have favored you concerning this thing also, in that I will not overthrow this city for which you have spoken. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Hurry, escape there. For I cannot do anything until you arrive there." Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sun had risen upon the earth when Lot entered Zoar.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD rained brimstone and fire on Sodom and Gomorrah, from the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 LORD out of the heavens. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So He overthrew those cities, all the plain, all the inhabitants of the cities, and what grew on the ground. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But his wife looked back behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham went early in the morning to the place where he had stood before the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the plain; and he saw, and behold, the smoke of the land which went up like the smoke of a furnace. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when He overthrew the cities in which Lot had dwelt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Lot went up out of Zoar and dwelt in the mountains, and his two daughters were with him; for he was afraid to dwell in Zoar. And he and his two daughters dwelt in a cave. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the firstborn said to the younger, "Our father is old, and there is no man on the earth to come in to us as is the custom of all the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve the lineage of our father." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they made their father drink wine that night. And the firstborn went in and lay with her father, and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 It happened on the next day that the firstborn said to the younger, "Indeed I lay with my father last night; let us make him drink wine tonight also, and you go in and lie with him, that we may preserve the lineage of our father." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they made their father drink wine that night also. And the younger arose and lay with him, and he did not know when she lay down or when she arose. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Thus both the daughters of Lot were with child by their father.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The firstborn bore a son and called his name Moab; he is the father of the Moabites 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 to this day. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the younger, she also bore a son and called his name Ben-Ammi; he is the father of the people of Ammon to this day. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 20
\b0\fs26 \cf3 And Abraham journeyed from there to the South, and dwelt between Kadesh and Shur, and stayed in Gerar. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Abraham said of Sarah his wife, "She is my sister." And Abimelech king of Gerar sent and took Sarah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him, "Indeed you are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is a man's wife." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Abimelech had not come near her; and he said, "Lord, will You slay a righteous nation also? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Did he not say to me, "She is my sister'? And she, even she herself said, "He is my brother.' In the integrity of my heart and innocence of my hands I have done this." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God said to him in a dream, "Yes, I know that you did this in the integrity of your heart. For I also withheld you from sinning against Me; therefore I did not let you touch her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, restore the man's wife; for he is a prophet, and he will pray for you and you shall live. But if you do not restore her, know that you shall surely die, you and all who are yours." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abimelech rose early in the morning, called all his servants, and told all these things in their hearing; and the men were very much afraid. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, "What have you done to us? How have I offended you, that you have brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? You have done deeds to me that ought not to be done." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abimelech said to Abraham, "What did you have in view, that you have done this thing?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham said, "Because I thought, surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will kill me on account of my wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But indeed she is truly my sister. She is the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father's house, that I said to her, "This is your kindness that you should do for me: in every place, wherever we go, say of me, "He is my brother.""' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abimelech took sheep, oxen, and male and female servants, and gave them to Abraham; and he restored Sarah his wife to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abimelech said, "See, my land is before you; dwell where it pleases you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then to Sarah he said, "Behold, I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver; indeed this vindicates you before all who are with you and before everybody." Thus she was rebuked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abraham prayed to God; and God healed Abimelech, his wife, and his female servants. Then they bore children; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 for the LORD had closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham's wife. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 21
\b0\fs26 \cf3 And the LORD visited Sarah as He had said, and the LORD did for Sarah as He had spoken. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him--whom Sarah bore to him--Isaac. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Abraham was one hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Sarah said, "God has made me laugh, and all who hear will laugh with me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 She also said, "Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? For I have borne him a son in his old age." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the child grew and was weaned. And Abraham made a great feast on the same day that Isaac was weaned. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, scoffing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore she said to Abraham, "Cast out this bondwoman and her son; for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, namely with Isaac." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the matter was very displeasing in Abraham's sight because of his son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But God said to Abraham, "Do not let it be displeasing in your sight because of the lad or because of your bondwoman. Whatever Sarah has said to you, listen to her voice; for in Isaac your seed shall be called. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Yet I will also make a nation of the son of the bondwoman, because he is your seed." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abraham rose early in the morning, and took bread and a skin of water; and putting it on her shoulder, he gave it and the boy to Hagar, and sent her away. Then she departed and wandered in the Wilderness of Beersheba. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the water in the skin was used up, and she placed the boy under one of the shrubs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then she went and sat down across from him at a distance of about a bowshot; for she said to herself, "Let me not see the death of the boy." So she sat opposite him, and lifted her voice and wept. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God heard the voice of the lad. Then the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said to her, "What ails you, Hagar? Fear not, for God has heard the voice of the lad where he is. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Arise, lift up the lad and hold him with your hand, for I will make him a great nation." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water. And she went and filled 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the skin with water, and gave the lad a drink. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So God was with the lad; and he grew and dwelt in the wilderness, and became an archer. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He dwelt in the Wilderness of Paran; and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass at that time that Abimelech and Phichol, the commander of his army, spoke to Abraham, saying, "God is with you in all that you do. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, swear to me by God that you will not deal falsely with me, with my offspring, or with my posterity; but that according to the kindness that I have done to you, you will do to me and to the land in which you have dwelt." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham said, "I will swear."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abraham rebuked Abimelech because of a well of water which Abimelech's 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 servants had seized. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abimelech said, "I do not know who has done this thing; you did not tell me, nor had I heard of it until today." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech, and the two of them made a covenant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abimelech asked Abraham, "What is the meaning of these seven ewe lambs 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 which you have set by themselves?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "You will take these seven ewe lambs from my hand, that they may be my witness that I have dug this well." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore he called that place Beersheba, because the two of them swore an oath there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba. So Abimelech rose with Phichol, the commander of his army, and they returned to the land of the Philistines. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abraham planted a tamarisk tree in Beersheba, and there called on the name of the LORD, the Everlasting God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham stayed in the land of the Philistines many days.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 22
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham, and said to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 him, "Abraham!" And he said, "Here I am." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then He said, "Take now your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I shall tell you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son; and he split the wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place of which God had told him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then on the third day Abraham lifted his eyes and saw the place afar off.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham said to his young men, "Stay here with the donkey; the lad and I will 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 go yonder and worship, and we will come back to you." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife, and the two of them went together. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, "My father!" And he said, "Here I am, my son." Then he said, "Look, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham said, "My son, God will provide for Himself the lamb for a burnt offering." So the two of them went together. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they came to the place of which God had told him. And Abraham built an altar there and placed the wood in order; and he bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar, upon the wood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the Angel of the LORD called to him from heaven and said, "Abraham, Abraham!" So he said, "Here I am." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He said, "Do not lay your hand on the lad, or do anything to him; for now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son, your only son, from Me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abraham lifted his eyes and looked, and there behind him was a ram caught in a thicket by its horns. So Abraham went and took the ram, and offered it up for a burnt offering instead of his son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham called the name of the place, The-LORD-Will-Provide; as it is said to this day, "In the Mount of the LORD it shall be provided." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the Angel of the LORD called to Abraham a second time out of heaven,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and said: "By Myself I have sworn, says the LORD, because you have done this 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 thing, and have not withheld your son, your only son-- 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply your descendants as the stars of the heaven and as the sand which is on the seashore; and your descendants shall possess the gate of their enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 In your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed, because you have obeyed My voice." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abraham returned to his young men, and they rose and went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it came to pass after these things that it was told Abraham, saying, "Indeed Milcah also has borne children to your brother Nahor: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Huz his firstborn, Buz his brother, Kemuel the father of Aram, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Chesed, Hazo, Pildash, Jidlaph, and Bethuel." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Bethuel begot Rebekah. These eight Milcah bore to Nahor, Abraham's brother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 His concubine, whose name was Reumah, also bore Tebah, Gaham, Thahash, and Maachah. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 23
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Sarah lived one hundred and twenty-seven years; these were the years of the life of Sarah. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Sarah died in Kirjath Arba (that is, Hebron) in the land of Canaan, and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah and to weep for her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spoke to the sons of Heth, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "I am a foreigner and a visitor among you. Give me property for a burial place among you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the sons of Heth answered Abraham, saying to him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Hear us, my lord: You are a mighty prince among us; bury your dead in the choicest of our burial places. None of us will withhold from you his burial place, that you may bury your dead." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abraham stood up and bowed himself to the people of the land, the sons of Heth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he spoke with them, saying, "If it is your wish that I bury my dead out of my sight, hear me, and meet with Ephron the son of Zohar for me, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that he may give me the cave of Machpelah which he has, which is at the end of his field. Let him give it to me at the full price, as property for a burial place among you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Ephron dwelt among the sons of Heth; and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the presence of the sons of Heth, all who entered at the gate of his city, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "No, my lord, hear me: I give you the field and the cave that is in it; I give it to you in the presence of the sons of my people. I give it to you. Bury your dead!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abraham bowed himself down before the people of the land; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and he spoke to Ephron in the hearing of the people of the land, saying, "If you will give it, please hear me. I will give you money for the field; take it from me and I will bury my dead there." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Ephron answered Abraham, saying to him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "My lord, listen to me; the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver. What is that between you and me? So bury your dead." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham listened to Ephron; and Abraham weighed out the silver for Ephron which he had named in the hearing of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, currency of the merchants. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the field of Ephron which was in Machpelah, which was before Mamre, the field and the cave which was in it, and all the trees that were in the field, which were within all the surrounding borders, were deeded 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 to Abraham as a possession in the presence of the sons of Heth, before all who went in at the gate of his city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah, before Mamre (that is, Hebron) in the land of Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the field and the cave that is in it were deeded to Abraham by the sons of Heth as property for a burial place. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 24
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now Abraham was old, well advanced in age; and the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abraham said to the oldest servant of his house, who ruled over all that he had, "Please, put your hand under my thigh, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and I will make you swear by the LORD, the God of heaven and the God of the earth, that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but you shall go to my country and to my family, and take a wife for my son Isaac." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the servant said to him, "Perhaps the woman will not be willing to follow me to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 this land. Must I take your son back to the land from which you came?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Abraham said to him, "Beware that you do not take my son back there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD God of heaven, who took me from my father's house and from the land of my family, and who spoke to me and swore to me, saying, "To your descendants I give this land,' He will send His angel before you, and you shall take a wife for my son from there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And if the woman is not willing to follow you, then you will be released from this oath; only do not take my son back there." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and swore to him concerning this matter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the servant took ten of his master's camels and departed, for all his master's goods were in his hand. And he arose and went to Mesopotamia, to the city of Nahor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he made his camels kneel down outside the city by a well of water at evening time, the time when women go out to draw water. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said, "O LORD God of my master Abraham, please give me success this day, and show kindness to my master Abraham. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Behold, here I stand by the well of water, and the daughters of the men of the city are coming out to draw water. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now let it be that the young woman to whom I say, "Please let down your pitcher that I may drink,' and she says, "Drink, and I will also give your camels a drink'--let her be the one You have appointed for Your servant Isaac. And by this I will know that You have shown kindness to my master." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it happened, before he had finished speaking, that behold, Rebekah, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, came out with her pitcher on her shoulder. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the young woman was very beautiful to behold, a virgin; no man had known her. And she went down to the well, filled her pitcher, and came up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the servant ran to meet her and said, "Please let me drink a little water from your pitcher." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So she said, "Drink, my lord." Then she quickly let her pitcher down to her hand, and gave him a drink. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when she had finished giving him a drink, she said, "I will draw water for your camels also, until they have finished drinking." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then she quickly emptied her pitcher into the trough, ran back to the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the man, wondering at her, remained silent so as to know whether the LORD had made his journey prosperous or not. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it was, when the camels had finished drinking, that the man took a golden nose ring weighing half a shekel, and two bracelets for her wrists weighing ten shekels of gold, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and said, "Whose daughter are you? Tell me, please, is there room in your father's house for us to lodge?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So she said to him, "I am the daughter of Bethuel, Milcah's son, whom she bore to Nahor." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Moreover she said to him, "We have both straw and feed enough, and room to lodge." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the man bowed down his head and worshiped the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who has not forsaken His mercy and His truth toward my master. As for me, being on the way, the LORD led me to the house of my master's brethren." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the young woman ran and told her mother's household these things.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Rebekah had a brother whose name was Laban, and Laban ran out to the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 man by the well. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it came to pass, when he saw the nose ring, and the bracelets on his sister's wrists, and when he heard the words of his sister Rebekah, saying, "Thus the man spoke to me," that he went to the man. And there he stood by the camels at the well. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "Come in, O blessed of the LORD! Why do you stand outside? For I have prepared the house, and a place for the camels." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the man came to the house. And he unloaded the camels, and provided straw and feed for the camels, and water to wash his feet and the feet of the men who were with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Food was set before him to eat, but he said, "I will not eat until I have told about my errand." And he said, "Speak on." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he said, "I am Abraham's servant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD has blessed my master greatly, and he has become great; and He has given him flocks and herds, silver and gold, male and female servants, and camels and donkeys. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Sarah my master's wife bore a son to my master when she was old; and to him he has given all that he has. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now my master made me swear, saying, "You shall not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but you shall go to my father's house and to my family, and take a wife for my son.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I said to my master, "Perhaps the woman will not follow me.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he said to me, "The LORD, before whom I walk, will send His angel with you and prosper your way; and you shall take a wife for my son from my family and from my father's house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You will be clear from this oath when you arrive among my family; for if they will not give her to you, then you will be released from my oath.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And this day I came to the well and said, "O LORD God of my master Abraham, if You will now prosper the way in which I go, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass that when the virgin comes out to draw water, and I say to her, "Please give me a little water from your pitcher to drink," 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and she says to me, "Drink, and I will draw for your camels also,"--let her be the woman whom the LORD has appointed for my master's son.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "But before I had finished speaking in my heart, there was Rebekah, coming out with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down to the well and drew water. And I said to her, "Please let me drink.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And she made haste and let her pitcher down from her shoulder, and said, "Drink, and I will give your camels a drink also.' So I drank, and she gave the camels a drink also. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then I asked her, and said, "Whose daughter are you?' And she said, "The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bore to him.' So I put the nose ring on her nose and the bracelets on her wrists. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I bowed my head and worshiped the LORD, and blessed the LORD God of my master Abraham, who had led me in the way of truth to take the daughter of my master's brother for his son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now if you will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me. And if not, tell me, that I may turn to the right hand or to the left." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, "The thing comes from the LORD; we cannot speak to you either bad or good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Here is Rebekah before you; take her and go, and let her be your master's son's wife, as the LORD has spoken." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, when Abraham's servant heard their words, that he worshiped the LORD, bowing himself to the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 53
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the servant brought out jewelry of silver, jewelry of gold, and clothing, and gave them to Rebekah. He also gave precious things to her brother and to her mother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 54
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he and the men who were with him ate and drank and stayed all night. Then they arose in the morning, and he said, "Send me away to my master." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 55
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But her brother and her mother said, "Let the young woman stay with us a few days, at least ten; after that she may go." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 56
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said to them, "Do not hinder me, since the LORD has prospered my way; send me away so that I may go to my master." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 57
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they said, "We will call the young woman and ask her personally."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 58
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they called Rebekah and said to her, "Will you go with this man?" And she 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 said, "I will go." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 59
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they sent away Rebekah their sister and her nurse, and Abraham's servant and his men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 60
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they blessed Rebekah and said to her: "Our sister, may you become The mother of thousands of ten thousands; And may your descendants possess The gates of those who hate them." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 61
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Rebekah and her maids arose, and they rode on the camels and followed the man. So the servant took Rebekah and departed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 62
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Isaac came from the way of Beer Lahai Roi, for he dwelt in the South.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 63
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Isaac went out to meditate in the field in the evening; and he lifted his eyes and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 looked, and there, the camels were coming. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 64
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Rebekah lifted her eyes, and when she saw Isaac she dismounted from her camel; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 65
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 for she had said to the servant, "Who is this man walking in the field to meet us?" The servant said, "It is my master." So she took a veil and covered herself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 66
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the servant told Isaac all the things that he had done.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 67
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent; and he took Rebekah and she 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 became his wife, and he loved her. So Isaac was comforted after his mother's death. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 25
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Abraham again took a wife, and her name was Keturah. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And she bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Jokshan begot Sheba and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, Letushim, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 and Leummim. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abidah, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Abraham gave gifts to the sons of the concubines which Abraham had; and while he was still living he sent them eastward, away from Isaac his son, to the country of the east. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This is the sum of the years of Abraham's life which he lived: one hundred and seventy-five years. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abraham breathed his last and died in a good old age, an old man and full of years, and was gathered to his people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the field which Abraham purchased from the sons of Heth. There Abraham was buried, and Sarah his wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, after the death of Abraham, that God blessed his son Isaac. And Isaac dwelt at Beer Lahai Roi. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now this is the genealogy of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's maidservant, bore to Abraham. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And these were the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: The firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Mishma, Dumah, Massa,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Hadar, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Ishmael and these were their names, by their towns and their settlements, twelve princes according to their nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the years of the life of Ishmael: one hundred and thirty-seven years; and he breathed his last and died, and was gathered to his people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 (They dwelt from Havilah as far as Shur, which is east of Egypt as you go toward Assyria.) He died in the presence of all his brethren. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This is the genealogy of Isaac, Abraham's son. Abraham begot Isaac.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah as wife, the daughter of Bethuel 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the Syrian of Padan Aram, the sister of Laban the Syrian. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Isaac pleaded with the LORD for his wife, because she was barren; and the LORD granted his plea, and Rebekah his wife conceived. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the children struggled together within her; and she said, "If all is well, why am I like this? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said to her: "Two nations are in your womb, Two peoples shall be separated from your body; One people shall be stronger than the other, And the older shall serve the younger." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So when her days were fulfilled for her to give birth, indeed there were twins in her womb. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the first came out red. He was like a hairy garment all over; so they called his name Esau. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Afterward his brother came out, and his hand took hold of Esau's heel; so his name was called Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the boys grew. And Esau was a skillful hunter, a man of the field; but Jacob was a mild man, dwelling in tents. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Isaac loved Esau because he ate of his game, but Rebekah loved Jacob. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Jacob cooked a stew; and Esau came in from the field, and he was weary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Esau said to Jacob, "Please feed me with that same red stew, for I am weary." Therefore his name was called Edom. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Jacob said, "Sell me your birthright as of this day."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Esau said, "Look, I am about to die; so what is this birthright to me?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob said, "Swear to me as of this day." So he swore to him, and sold his birthright to Jacob. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob gave Esau bread and stew of lentils; then he ate and drank, arose, and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 26
\b0\fs26 \cf3 There was a famine in the land, besides the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went to Abimelech king of the Philistines, in Gerar. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD appeared to him and said: "Do not go down to Egypt; live in the land of which I shall tell you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Dwell in this land, and I will be with you and bless you; for to you and your descendants I give all these lands, and I will perform the oath which I swore to Abraham your father. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And I will make your descendants multiply as the stars of heaven; I will give to your descendants all these lands; and in your seed all the nations of the earth shall be blessed; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 because Abraham obeyed My voice and kept My charge, My commandments, My statutes, and My laws." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Isaac dwelt in Gerar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the men of the place asked about his wife. And he said, "She is my sister"; for he was afraid to say, "She is my wife," because he thought, "lest the men of the place kill me for Rebekah, because she is beautiful to behold." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked through a window, and saw, and there was Isaac, showing endearment to Rebekah his wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abimelech called Isaac and said, "Quite obviously she is your wife; so how could you say, "She is my sister'?" Isaac said to him, "Because I said, "Lest I die on account of her.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abimelech said, "What is this you have done to us? One of the people might soon have lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt on us." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Abimelech charged all his people, saying, "He who touches this man or his wife shall surely be put to death." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Isaac sowed in that land, and reaped in the same year a hundredfold; and the LORD blessed him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The man began to prosper, and continued prospering until he became very prosperous; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 for he had possessions of flocks and possessions of herds and a great number of servants. So the Philistines envied him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the Philistines had stopped up all the wells which his father's servants had dug in the days of Abraham his father, and they had filled them with earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Abimelech said to Isaac, "Go away from us, for you are much mightier than we." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Isaac departed from there and pitched his tent in the Valley of Gerar, and dwelt there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Isaac dug again the wells of water which they had dug in the days of Abraham his father, for the Philistines had stopped them up after the death of Abraham. He called them by the names which his father had called them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also Isaac's servants dug in the valley, and found a well of running water there. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the herdsmen of Gerar quarreled with Isaac's herdsmen, saying, "The water is 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 ours." So he called the name of the well Esek, because they quarreled with him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they dug another well, and they quarreled over that one also. So he called its name Sitnah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he moved from there and dug another well, and they did not quarrel over it. So he called its name Rehoboth, because he said, "For now the LORD has made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he went up from there to Beersheba. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD appeared to him the same night and said, "I am the God of your father Abraham; do not fear, for I am with you. I will bless you and multiply your descendants for My servant Abraham's sake." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he built an altar there and called on the name of the LORD, and he pitched his tent there; and there Isaac's servants dug a well. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Abimelech came to him from Gerar with Ahuzzath, one of his friends, and Phichol the commander of his army. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Isaac said to them, "Why have you come to me, since you hate me and have sent me away from you?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But they said, "We have certainly seen that the LORD is with you. So we said, "Let there now be an oath between us, between you and us; and let us make a covenant with you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that you will do us no harm, since we have not touched you, and since we have done nothing to you but good and have sent you away in peace. You are now the blessed of the LORD."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he made them a feast, and they ate and drank.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they arose early in the morning and swore an oath with one another; and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 It came to pass the same day that Isaac's servants came and told him about the well which they had dug, and said to him, "We have found water." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he called it Shebah. Therefore the name of the city is Beersheba to this day. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Esau was forty years old, he took as wives Judith the daughter of Beeri the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Hittite, and Basemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they were a grief of mind to Isaac and Rebekah. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 27
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now it came to pass, when Isaac was old and his eyes were so dim that he could not see, that he called Esau his older son and said to him, "My son." And he 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 answered him, "Here I am."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said, "Behold now, I am old. I do not know the day of my death. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, please take your weapons, your quiver and your bow, and go out to the field and hunt game for me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And make me savory food, such as I love, and bring it to me that I may eat, that my soul may bless you before I die." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Rebekah was listening when Isaac spoke to Esau his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt game and to bring it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Rebekah spoke to Jacob her son, saying, "Indeed I heard your father speak to Esau your brother, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Bring me game and make savory food for me, that I may eat it and bless you in the presence of the LORD before my death.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to what I command you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Go now to the flock and bring me from there two choice kids of the goats, and I will make savory food from them for your father, such as he loves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then you shall take it to your father, that he may eat it, and that he may bless you before his death." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, "Look, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth-skinned man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Perhaps my father will feel me, and I shall seem to be a deceiver to him; and I shall bring a curse on myself and not a blessing." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But his mother said to him, "Let your curse be on me, my son; only obey my voice, and go, get them for me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he went and got them and brought them to his mother, and his mother made savory food, such as his father loved. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Rebekah took the choice clothes of her elder son Esau, which were with her in the house, and put them on Jacob her younger son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And she put the skins of the kids of the goats on his hands and on the smooth part of his neck. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then she gave the savory food and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he went to his father and said, "My father." And he said, "Here I am. Who are you, my son?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Jacob said to his father, "I am Esau your firstborn; I have done just as you told me; please arise, sit and eat of my game, that your soul may bless me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Isaac said to his son, "How is it that you have found it so quickly, my son?" And he said, "Because the LORD your God brought it to me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Isaac said to Jacob, "Please come near, that I may feel you, my son, whether you are really my son Esau or not." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob went near to Isaac his father, and he felt him and said, "The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he did not recognize him, because his hands were hairy like his brother Esau's hands; so he blessed him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said, "Are you really my son Esau?" He said, "I am." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He said, "Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's game, so that my soul may bless you." So he brought it near to him, and he ate; and he brought him wine, and he drank. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then his father Isaac said to him, "Come near now and kiss me, my son." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he came near and kissed him; and he smelled the smell of his clothing, and blessed him and said: "Surely, the smell of my son Is like the smell of a field Which the LORD has blessed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore may God give you Of the dew of heaven, Of the fatness of the earth, And plenty of grain and wine. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Let peoples serve you, And nations bow down to you. Be master over your brethren, And let your mother's sons bow down to you. Cursed be everyone who curses you, And blessed be those who bless you!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it happened, as soon as Isaac had finished blessing Jacob, and Jacob had scarcely gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He also had made savory food, and brought it to his father, and said to his father, "Let my father arise and eat of his son's game, that your soul may bless me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And his father Isaac said to him, "Who are you?" So he said, "I am your son, your firstborn, Esau." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Isaac trembled exceedingly, and said, "Who? Where is the one who hunted game and brought it to me? I ate all of it before you came, and I have blessed him-- and indeed he shall be blessed." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with an exceedingly great and bitter cry, and said to his father, "Bless me--me also, O my father!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he said, "Your brother came with deceit and has taken away your blessing." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Esau said, "Is he not rightly named Jacob? For he has supplanted me these two times. He took away my birthright, and now look, he has taken away my blessing!" And he said, "Have you not reserved a blessing for me?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Isaac answered and said to Esau, "Indeed I have made him your master, and all his brethren I have given to him as servants; with grain and wine I have sustained him. What shall I do now for you, my son?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Esau said to his father, "Have you only one blessing, my father? Bless me--me also, O my father!" And Esau lifted up his voice and wept. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Isaac his father answered and said to him: "Behold, your dwelling shall be of the fatness of the earth, And of the dew of heaven from above. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 By your sword you shall live, And you shall serve your brother; And it shall come to pass, when you become restless, That you shall break his yoke from your neck." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing with which his father blessed him, and Esau said in his heart, "The days of mourning for my father are at hand; then I will kill my brother Jacob." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the words of Esau her older son were told to Rebekah. So she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said to him, "Surely your brother Esau comforts himself concerning you by intending to kill you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, my son, obey my voice: arise, flee to my brother Laban in Haran. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And stay with him a few days, until your brother's fury turns away, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 until your brother's anger turns away from you, and he forgets what you have done to him; then I will send and bring you from there. Why should I be bereaved also of you both in one day?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Rebekah said to Isaac, "I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth; if Jacob takes a wife of the daughters of Heth, like these who are the daughters of the land, what good will my life be to me?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 28
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then Isaac called Jacob and blessed him, and charged him, and said to him: "You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Arise, go to Padan Aram, to the house of Bethuel your mother's father; and take yourself a wife from there of the daughters of Laban your mother's brother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "May God Almighty bless you, And make you fruitful and multiply you, That you may be an assembly of peoples; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And give you the blessing of Abraham, To you and your descendants with you, That you may inherit the land In which you are a stranger, Which God gave to Abraham." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Padan Aram, to Laban the son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, the mother of Jacob and Esau. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Padan Aram to take himself a wife from there, and that as he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, "You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan," 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and that Jacob had obeyed his father and his mother and had gone to Padan Aram. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also Esau saw that the daughters of Canaan did not please his father Isaac. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Esau went to Ishmael and took Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his wife in addition to the wives he had. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Jacob went out from Beersheba and went toward Haran. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he came to a certain place and stayed there all night, because the sun had set. And he took one of the stones of that place and put it at his head, and he lay down in that place to sleep. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he dreamed, and behold, a ladder was set up on the earth, and its top reached to heaven; and there the angels of God were ascending and descending on it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And behold, the LORD stood above it and said: "I am the LORD God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac; the land on which you lie I will give to you and your descendants. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also your descendants shall be as the dust of the earth; you shall spread abroad to the west and the east, to the north and the south; and in you and in your seed all the families of the earth shall be blessed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Behold, I am with you and will keep you wherever you go, and will bring you back to this land; for I will not leave you until I have done what I have spoken to you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, "Surely the LORD is in this place, and I did not know it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he was afraid and said, "How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob rose early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put at his head, set it up as a pillar, and poured oil on top of it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he called the name of that place Bethel; but the name of that city had been Luz previously. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob made a vow, saying, "If God will be with me, and keep me in this way that I am going, and give me bread to eat and clothing to put on, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 so that I come back to my father's house in peace, then the LORD shall be my God. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And this stone which I have set as a pillar shall be God's house, and of all that You 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 give me I will surely give a tenth to You."\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 29
\b0\fs26 \cf3 So Jacob went on his journey and came to the land of the people of the East. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he looked, and saw a well in the field; and behold, there were three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well they watered the flocks. A large stone was on the well's mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now all the flocks would be gathered there; and they would roll the stone from the well's mouth, water the sheep, and put the stone back in its place on the well's mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob said to them, "My brethren, where are you from?" And they said, "We are from Haran." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said to them, "Do you know Laban the son of Nahor?" And they said, "We know him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he said to them, "Is he well?" And they said, "He is well. And look, his daughter Rachel is coming with the sheep." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said, "Look, it is still high day; it is not time for the cattle to be gathered together. Water the sheep, and go and feed them." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But they said, "We cannot until all the flocks are gathered together, and they have rolled the stone from the well's mouth; then we water the sheep." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now while he was still speaking with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep, for she was a shepherdess. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, that Jacob went near and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice and wept.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's relative and that he was Rebekah's 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 son. So she ran and told her father. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then it came to pass, when Laban heard the report about Jacob his sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him and kissed him, and brought him to his house. So he told Laban all these things. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban said to him, "Surely you are my bone and my flesh." And he stayed with him for a month. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Laban said to Jacob, "Because you are my relative, should you therefore serve me for nothing? Tell me, what should your wages be? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Leah's eyes were delicate, but Rachel was beautiful of form and appearance. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Jacob loved Rachel; so he said, "I will serve you seven years for Rachel your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 younger daughter." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban said, "It is better that I give her to you than that I should give her to another man. Stay with me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob served seven years for Rachel, and they seemed only a few days to him because of the love he had for her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob said to Laban, "Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in to her." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban gathered together all the men of the place and made a feast. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his daughter and brought her to Jacob; and he went in to her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban gave his maid Zilpah to his daughter Leah as a maid. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it came to pass in the morning, that behold, it was Leah. And he said to Laban, "What is this you have done to me? Was it not for Rachel that I served you? Why then have you deceived me?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban said, "It must not be done so in our country, to give the younger before the firstborn. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Fulfill her week, and we will give you this one also for the service which you will serve with me still another seven years." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob did so and fulfilled her week. So he gave him his daughter Rachel as wife also. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban gave his maid Bilhah to his daughter Rachel as a maid.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob also went in to Rachel, and he also loved Rachel more than Leah. And 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 he served with Laban still another seven years. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When the LORD saw that Leah was unloved, He opened her womb; but Rachel was barren. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Leah conceived and bore a son, and she called his name Reuben; for she said, "The LORD has surely looked on my affliction. Now therefore, my husband will love me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then she conceived again and bore a son, and said, "Because the LORD has heard that I am unloved, He has therefore given me this son also." And she called his name Simeon. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 She conceived again and bore a son, and said, "Now this time my husband will become attached to me, because I have borne him three sons." Therefore his name was called Levi. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And she conceived again and bore a son, and said, "Now I will praise the LORD." Therefore she called his name Judah. Then she stopped bearing. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 30
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now when Rachel saw that she bore Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister, and said to Jacob, "Give me children, or else I die!" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob's anger was aroused against Rachel, and he said, "Am I in the place of God, who has withheld from you the fruit of the womb?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So she said, "Here is my maid Bilhah; go in to her, and she will bear a child on my knees, that I also may have children by her." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then she gave him Bilhah her maid as wife, and Jacob went in to her. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Bilhah conceived and bore Jacob a son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Rachel said, "God has judged my case; and He has also heard my voice and given me a son." Therefore she called his name Dan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Rachel's maid Bilhah conceived again and bore Jacob a second son.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Rachel said, "With great wrestlings I have wrestled with my sister, and indeed I 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 have prevailed." So she called his name Naphtali. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Leah saw that she had stopped bearing, she took Zilpah her maid and gave her to Jacob as wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Leah's maid Zilpah bore Jacob a son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Leah said, "A troop comes!" So she called his name Gad. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Leah's maid Zilpah bore Jacob a second son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Leah said, "I am happy, for the daughters will call me blessed." So she called his name Asher. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them to his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, "Please give me some of your son's mandrakes." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But she said to her, "Is it a small matter that you have taken away my husband? Would you take away my son's mandrakes also?" And Rachel said, "Therefore he will lie with you tonight for your son's mandrakes." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Jacob came out of the field in the evening, Leah went out to meet him and said, "You must come in to me, for I have surely hired you with my son's mandrakes." And he lay with her that night. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God listened to Leah, and she conceived and bore Jacob a fifth son.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Leah said, "God has given me my wages, because I have given my maid to my 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 husband." So she called his name Issachar. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Leah conceived again and bore Jacob a sixth son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Leah said, "God has endowed me with a good endowment; now my husband will dwell with me, because I have borne him six sons." So she called his name Zebulun. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Afterward she bore a daughter, and called her name Dinah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God remembered Rachel, and God listened to her and opened her womb. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And she conceived and bore a son, and said, "God has taken away my reproach." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So she called his name Joseph, and said, "The LORD shall add to me another son." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, when Rachel had borne Joseph, that Jacob said to Laban, "Send me away, that I may go to my own place and to my country. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Give me my wives and my children for whom I have served you, and let me go; for you know my service which I have done for you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban said to him, "Please stay, if I have found favor in your eyes, for I have learned by experience that the LORD has blessed me for your sake." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said, "Name me your wages, and I will give it."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob said to him, "You know how I have served you and how your livestock 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 has been with me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For what you had before I came was little, and it has increased to a great amount; the LORD has blessed you since my coming. And now, when shall I also provide for my own house?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he said, "What shall I give you?" And Jacob said, "You shall not give me anything. If you will do this thing for me, I will again feed and keep your flocks: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Let me pass through all your flock today, removing from there all the speckled and spotted sheep, and all the brown ones among the lambs, and the spotted and speckled among the goats; and these shall be my wages. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So my righteousness will answer for me in time to come, when the subject of my wages comes before you: every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and brown among the lambs, will be considered stolen, if it is with me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban said, "Oh, that it were according to your word!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he removed that day the male goats that were speckled and spotted, all the female goats that were speckled and spotted, every one that had some white in it, and all the brown ones among the lambs, and gave them into the hand of his sons. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he put three days' journey between himself and Jacob, and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Jacob took for himself rods of green poplar and of the almond and chestnut trees, peeled white strips in them, and exposed the white which was in the rods. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the rods which he had peeled, he set before the flocks in the gutters, in the watering troughs where the flocks came to drink, so that they should conceive when they came to drink. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the flocks conceived before the rods, and the flocks brought forth streaked, speckled, and spotted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob separated the lambs, and made the flocks face toward the streaked and all the brown in the flock of Laban; but he put his own flocks by themselves and did not put them with Laban's flock. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, whenever the stronger livestock conceived, that Jacob placed the rods before the eyes of the livestock in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But when the flocks were feeble, he did not put them in; so the feebler were Laban's and the stronger Jacob's. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Thus the man became exceedingly prosperous, and had large flocks, female and male servants, and camels and donkeys. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 31
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now Jacob heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, "Jacob has taken away all that was our father's, and from what was our father's he has acquired all this 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 wealth." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob saw the countenance of Laban, and indeed it was not favorable toward him as before. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD said to Jacob, "Return to the land of your fathers and to your family, and I will be with you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field, to his flock,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and said to them, "I see your father's countenance, that it is not favorable toward me 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 as before; but the God of my father has been with me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you know that with all my might I have served your father. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Yet your father has deceived me and changed my wages ten times, but God did not allow him to hurt me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If he said thus: "The speckled shall be your wages,' then all the flocks bore speckled. And if he said thus: "The streaked shall be your wages,' then all the flocks bore streaked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So God has taken away the livestock of your father and given them to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And it happened, at the time when the flocks conceived, that I lifted my eyes and saw in a dream, and behold, the rams which leaped upon the flocks were streaked, speckled, and gray-spotted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the Angel of God spoke to me in a dream, saying, "Jacob.' And I said, "Here I am.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He said, "Lift your eyes now and see, all the rams which leap on the flocks are streaked, speckled, and gray-spotted; for I have seen all that Laban is doing to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I am the God of Bethel, where you anointed the pillar and where you made a vow to Me. Now arise, get out of this land, and return to the land of your family."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Rachel and Leah answered and said to him, "Is there still any portion or inheritance for us in our father's house? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Are we not considered strangers by him? For he has sold us, and also completely consumed our money. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For all these riches which God has taken from our father are really ours and our children's; now then, whatever God has said to you, do it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob rose and set his sons and his wives on camels. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he carried away all his livestock and all his possessions which he had gained, his acquired livestock which he had gained in Padan Aram, to go to his father Isaac in the land of Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Laban had gone to shear his sheep, and Rachel had stolen the household idols that were her father's. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob stole away, unknown to Laban the Syrian, in that he did not tell him that he intended to flee. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he fled with all that he had. He arose and crossed the river, and headed toward the mountains of Gilead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban was told on the third day that Jacob had fled.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he took his brethren with him and pursued him for seven days' journey, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 he overtook him in the mountains of Gilead. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But God had come to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said to him, "Be careful that you speak to Jacob neither good nor bad." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mountains, and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mountains of Gilead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban said to Jacob: "What have you done, that you have stolen away unknown to me, and carried away my daughters like captives taken with the sword? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Why did you flee away secretly, and steal away from me, and not tell me; for I might have sent you away with joy and songs, with timbrel and harp? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And you did not allow me to kiss my sons and my daughters. Now you have done foolishly in so doing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 It is in my power to do you harm, but the God of your father spoke to me last night, saying, "Be careful that you speak to Jacob neither good nor bad.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And now you have surely gone because you greatly long for your father's house, but why did you steal my gods?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob answered and said to Laban, "Because I was afraid, for I said, "Perhaps you would take your daughters from me by force.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 With whomever you find your gods, do not let him live. In the presence of our brethren, identify what I have of yours and take it with you." For Jacob did not know that Rachel had stolen them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban went into Jacob's tent, into Leah's tent, and into the two maids' tents, but he did not find them. Then he went out of Leah's tent and entered Rachel's tent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Rachel had taken the household idols, put them in the camel's saddle, and sat on them. And Laban searched all about the tent but did not find them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And she said to her father, "Let it not displease my lord that I cannot rise before you, for the manner of women is with me." And he searched but did not find the household idols. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob was angry and rebuked Laban, and Jacob answered and said to Laban: "What is my trespass? What is my sin, that you have so hotly pursued me? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Although you have searched all my things, what part of your household things have you found? Set it here before my brethren and your brethren, that they may judge between us both! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These twenty years I have been with you; your ewes and your female goats have not miscarried their young, and I have not eaten the rams of your flock. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 That which was torn by beasts I did not bring to you; I bore the loss of it. You required it from my hand, whether stolen by day or stolen by night. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 There I was! In the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by night, and my sleep departed from my eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Thus I have been in your house twenty years; I served you fourteen years for your two daughters, and six years for your flock, and you have changed my wages ten times. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Unless the God of my father, the God of Abraham and the Fear of Isaac, had been with me, surely now you would have sent me away empty-handed. God has seen my affliction and the labor of my hands, and rebuked you last night." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban answered and said to Jacob, "These daughters are my daughters, and these children are my children, and this flock is my flock; all that you see is mine. But what can I do this day to these my daughters or to their children whom they have borne? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, come, let us make a covenant, you and I, and let it be a witness between you and me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob took a stone and set it up as a pillar.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob said to his brethren, "Gather stones." And they took stones and made a 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 heap, and they ate there on the heap.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Laban called it Jegar Sahadutha, but Jacob called it Galeed. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Laban said, "This heap is a witness between you and me this day." Therefore its name was called Galeed, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 also Mizpah, because he said, "May the LORD watch between you and me when we are absent one from another. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If you afflict my daughters, or if you take other wives besides my daughters, although no man is with us--see, God is witness between you and me!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Laban said to Jacob, "Here is this heap and here is this pillar, which I have placed between you and me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This heap is a witness, and this pillar is a witness, that I will not pass beyond this heap to you, and you will not pass beyond this heap and this pillar to me, for harm. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 53
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The God of Abraham, the God of Nahor, and the God of their father judge between us." And Jacob swore by the Fear of his father Isaac. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 54
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob offered a sacrifice on the mountain, and called his brethren to eat bread. And they ate bread and stayed all night on the mountain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 55
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And early in the morning Laban arose, and kissed his sons and daughters and blessed them. Then Laban departed and returned to his place. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 32
\b0\fs26 \cf3 So Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Jacob saw them, he said, "This is God's camp." And he called the name of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 that place Mahanaim. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother in the land of Seir, the country of Edom. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he commanded them, saying, "Speak thus to my lord Esau, "Thus your servant Jacob says: "I have dwelt with Laban and stayed there until now. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I have oxen, donkeys, flocks, and male and female servants; and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find favor in your sight.""' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, "We came to your brother Esau, and he also is coming to meet you, and four hundred men are with him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed; and he divided the people that were with him, and the flocks and herds and camels, into two companies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "If Esau comes to the one company and attacks it, then the other company which is left will escape." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob said, "O God of my father Abraham and God of my father Isaac, the LORD who said to me, "Return to your country and to your family, and I will deal well with you': 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies and of all the truth which You have shown Your servant; for I crossed over this Jordan with my staff, and now I have become two companies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Deliver me, I pray, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau; for I fear him, lest he come and attack me and the mother with the children. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For You said, "I will surely treat you well, and make your descendants as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he lodged there that same night, and took what came to his hand as a present for Esau his brother: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 two hundred female goats and twenty male goats, two hundred ewes and twenty rams, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 thirty milk camels with their colts, forty cows and ten bulls, twenty female donkeys and ten foals. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he delivered them to the hand of his servants, every drove by itself, and said to his servants, "Pass over before me, and put some distance between successive droves." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he commanded the first one, saying, "When Esau my brother meets you and asks you, saying, "To whom do you belong, and where are you going? Whose are these in front of you?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then you shall say, "They are your servant Jacob's. It is a present sent to my lord Esau; and behold, he also is behind us."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he commanded the second, the third, and all who followed the droves, saying, "In this manner you shall speak to Esau when you find him; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and also say, "Behold, your servant Jacob is behind us."' For he said, "I will appease him with the present that goes before me, and afterward I will see his face; perhaps he will accept me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the present went on over before him, but he himself lodged that night in the camp. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he arose that night and took his two wives, his two female servants, and his eleven sons, and crossed over the ford of Jabbok. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He took them, sent them over the brook, and sent over what he had.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob was left alone; and a Man wrestled with him until the breaking of day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now when He saw that He did not prevail against him, He touched the socket of his hip; and the socket of Jacob's hip was out of joint as He wrestled with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He said, "Let Me go, for the day breaks." But he said, "I will not let You go unless You bless me!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So He said to him, "What is your name?" He said, "Jacob."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And He said, "Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel; for you have 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 struggled with God and with men, and have prevailed." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob asked, saying, "Tell me Your name, I pray." And He said, "Why is it that you ask about My name?" And He blessed him there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: "For I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Just as he crossed over Penuel the sun rose on him, and he limped on his hip. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Therefore to this day the children of Israel do not eat the muscle that shrank, which is on the hip socket, because He touched the socket of Jacob's hip in the muscle that shrank. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 33
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now Jacob lifted his eyes and looked, and there, Esau was coming, and with him were four hundred men. So he divided the children among Leah, Rachel, and the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 two maidservants. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he put the maidservants and their children in front, Leah and her children behind, and Rachel and Joseph last. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he crossed over before them and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck and kissed him, and they wept. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he lifted his eyes and saw the women and children, and said, "Who are these with you?" So he said, "The children whom God has graciously given your servant." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the maidservants came near, they and their children, and bowed down. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Leah also came near with her children, and they bowed down. Afterward Joseph and Rachel came near, and they bowed down. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Esau said, "What do you mean by all this company which I met?" And he said, "These are to find favor in the sight of my lord." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Esau said, "I have enough, my brother; keep what you have for yourself." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob said, "No, please, if I have now found favor in your sight, then receive my present from my hand, inasmuch as I have seen your face as though I had seen the face of God, and you were pleased with me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Please, take my blessing that is brought to you, because God has dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough." So he urged him, and he took it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Esau said, "Let us take our journey; let us go, and I will go before you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Jacob said to him, "My lord knows that the children are weak, and the flocks and herds which are nursing are with me. And if the men should drive them hard one day, all the flock will die. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Please let my lord go on ahead before his servant. I will lead on slowly at a pace which the livestock that go before me, and the children, are able to endure, until I come to my lord in Seir." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Esau said, "Now let me leave with you some of the people who are with me." But he said, "What need is there? Let me find favor in the sight of my lord." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Esau returned that day on his way to Seir.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, built himself a house, and made booths for his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 livestock. Therefore the name of the place is called Succoth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob came safely to the city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padan Aram; and he pitched his tent before the city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he bought the parcel of land, where he had pitched his tent, from the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for one hundred pieces of money. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he erected an altar there and called it El Elohe Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 34
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now Dinah the daughter of Leah, whom she had borne to Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her and lay with her, and violated her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 His soul was strongly attracted to Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the young woman and spoke kindly to the young woman. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Shechem spoke to his father Hamor, saying, "Get me this young woman as a wife." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter. Now his sons were with his livestock in the field; so Jacob held his peace until they came. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Hamor the father of Shechem went out to Jacob to speak with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the sons of Jacob came in from the field when they heard it; and the men were grieved and very angry, because he had done a disgraceful thing in Israel by lying with Jacob's daughter, a thing which ought not to be done. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Hamor spoke with them, saying, "The soul of my son Shechem longs for your daughter. Please give her to him as a wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And make marriages with us; give your daughters to us, and take our daughters to yourselves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So you shall dwell with us, and the land shall be before you. Dwell and trade in it, and acquire possessions for yourselves in it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Shechem said to her father and her brothers, "Let me find favor in your eyes, and whatever you say to me I will give. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Ask me ever so much dowry and gift, and I will give according to what you say to me; but give me the young woman as a wife." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father, and spoke deceitfully, because he had defiled Dinah their sister. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they said to them, "We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one who is uncircumcised, for that would be a reproach to us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But on this condition we will consent to you: If you will become as we are, if every male of you is circumcised, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 then we will give our daughters to you, and we will take your daughters to us; and we will dwell with you, and we will become one people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But if you will not heed us and be circumcised, then we will take our daughter and be gone." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And their words pleased Hamor and Shechem, Hamor's son.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the young man did not delay to do the thing, because he delighted in Jacob's 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 daughter. He was more honorable than all the household of his father. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Hamor and Shechem his son came to the gate of their city, and spoke with the men of their city, saying: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "These men are at peace with us. Therefore let them dwell in the land and trade in it. For indeed the land is large enough for them. Let us take their daughters to us as wives, and let us give them our daughters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Only on this condition will the men consent to dwell with us, to be one people: if every male among us is circumcised as they are circumcised. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Will not their livestock, their property, and every animal of theirs be ours? Only let us consent to them, and they will dwell with us." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And all who went out of the gate of his city heeded Hamor and Shechem his son; every male was circumcised, all who went out of the gate of his city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it came to pass on the third day, when they were in pain, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brothers, each took his sword and came boldly upon the city and killed all the males. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they killed Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah from Shechem's house, and went out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and plundered the city, because their sister had been defiled. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 They took their sheep, their oxen, and their donkeys, what was in the city and what was in the field, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and all their wealth. All their little ones and their wives they took captive; and they plundered even all that was in the houses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, "You have troubled me by making me obnoxious among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites; and since I am few in number, they will gather themselves together against me and kill me. I shall be destroyed, my household and I." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But they said, "Should he treat our sister like a harlot?"\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 35
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then God said to Jacob, "Arise, go up to Bethel and dwell there; and make an 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 altar there to God, who appeared to you when you fled from the face of Esau your brother." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, "Put away the foreign gods that are among you, purify yourselves, and change your garments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then let us arise and go up to Bethel; and I will make an altar there to God, who answered me in the day of my distress and has been with me in the way which I have gone." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they gave Jacob all the foreign gods which were in their hands, and the earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the terebinth tree which was by Shechem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they journeyed, and the terror of God was upon the cities that were all around them, and they did not pursue the sons of Jacob. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob came to Luz (that is, Bethel), which is in the land of Canaan, he and all the people who were with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he built an altar there and called the place El Bethel, because there God appeared to him when he fled from the face of his brother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Deborah, Rebekah's nurse, died, and she was buried below Bethel under the terebinth tree. So the name of it was called Allon Bachuth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God appeared to Jacob again, when he came from Padan Aram, and blessed him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God said to him, "Your name is Jacob; your name shall not be called Jacob anymore, but Israel shall be your name." So He called his name Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also God said to him: "I am God Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall proceed from you, and kings shall come from your body. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The land which I gave Abraham and Isaac I give to you; and to your descendants after you I give this land." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God went up from him in the place where He talked with him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob set up a pillar in the place where He talked with him, a pillar of stone; and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 he poured a drink offering on it, and he poured oil on it.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob called the name of the place where God spoke with him, Bethel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they journeyed from Bethel. And when there was but a little distance to go to Ephrath, Rachel labored in childbirth, and she had hard labor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it came to pass, when she was in hard labor, that the midwife said to her, "Do not fear; you will have this son also." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And so it was, as her soul was departing (for she died), that she called his name Ben-Oni; but his father called him Benjamin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Rachel died and was buried on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem).\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob set a pillar on her grave, which is the pillar of Rachel's grave to this day. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Israel journeyed and pitched his tent beyond the tower of Eder. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it happened, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine; and Israel heard about it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the sons of Leah were Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the sons of Rachel were Joseph and Benjamin;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's maidservant, were Dan and Naphtali; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and the sons of Zilpah, Leah's maidservant, were Gad and Asher. These were the sons of Jacob who were born to him in Padan Aram. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob came to his father Isaac at Mamre, or Kirjath Arba (that is, Hebron), where Abraham and Isaac had dwelt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the days of Isaac were one hundred and eighty years.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Isaac breathed his last and died, and was gathered to his people, being old and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 full of days. And his sons Esau and Jacob buried him. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 36
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now this is the genealogy of Esau, who is Edom. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Esau took his wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite; Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and Basemath, Ishmael's daughter, sister of Nebajoth. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Adah bore Eliphaz to Esau, and Basemath bore Reuel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Aholibamah bore Jeush, Jaalam, and Korah. These were the sons of Esau who were born to him in the land of Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and all the persons of his household, his cattle and all his animals, and all his goods which he had gained in the land of Canaan, and went to a country away from the presence of his brother Jacob. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For their possessions were too great for them to dwell together, and the land where they were strangers could not support them because of their livestock. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Esau dwelt in Mount Seir. Esau is Edom.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And this is the genealogy of Esau the father of the Edomites in Mount Seir. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, and Reuel the son of Basemath the wife of Esau. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Timna was the concubine of Eliphaz, Esau's son, and she bore Amalek to Eliphaz. These were the sons of Adah, Esau's wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah. These were the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Aholibamah, Esau's wife, the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon. And she bore to Esau: Jeush, Jaalam, and Korah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the chiefs of the sons of Esau. The sons of Eliphaz, the firstborn son of Esau, were Chief Teman, Chief Omar, Chief Zepho, Chief Kenaz, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Chief Korah, Chief Gatam, and Chief Amalek. These were the chiefs of Eliphaz in the land of Edom. They were the sons of Adah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Reuel, Esau's son: Chief Nahath, Chief Zerah, Chief Shammah, and Chief Mizzah. These were the chiefs of Reuel in the land of Edom. These were the sons of Basemath, Esau's wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And these were the sons of Aholibamah, Esau's wife: Chief Jeush, Chief Jaalam, and Chief Korah. These were the chiefs who descended from Aholibamah, Esau's wife, the daughter of Anah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these were their chiefs.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Seir the Horite who inhabited the land: Lotan, Shobal, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Zibeon, Anah, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan. These were the chiefs of the Horites, the sons of Seir, in the land of Edom. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the sons of Lotan were Hori and Hemam. Lotan's sister was Timna. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Shobal: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Zibeon: both Ajah and Anah. This was the Anah who found the water in the wilderness as he pastured the donkeys of his father Zibeon. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the children of Anah: Dishon and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the chiefs of the Horites: Chief Lotan, Chief Shobal, Chief Zibeon, Chief Anah, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Chief Dishon, Chief Ezer, and Chief Dishan. These were the chiefs of the Horites, according to their chiefs in the land of Seir. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now these were the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the children of Israel: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom, and the name of his city was Dinhabah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when Bela died, Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Jobab died, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when Husham died, Hadad the son of Bedad, who attacked Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his place. And the name of his city was Avith. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Hadad died, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when Samlah died, Saul of Rehoboth-by-the-River reigned in his place. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Saul died, Baal-Hanan the son of Achbor reigned in his place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when Baal-Hanan the son of Achbor died, Hadar reigned in his place; and the name of his city was Pau. His wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And these were the names of the chiefs of Esau, according to their families and their places, by their names: Chief Timnah, Chief Alvah, Chief Jetheth, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Chief Aholibamah, Chief Elah, Chief Pinon, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Chief Kenaz, Chief Teman, Chief Mibzar, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Chief Magdiel, and Chief Iram. These were the chiefs of Edom, according to their dwelling places in the land of their possession. Esau was the father of the Edomites. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 37
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now Jacob dwelt in the land where his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This is the history of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brothers. And the lad was with the sons of Bilhah and the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives; and Joseph brought a bad report of them to his father. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age. Also he made him a tunic of many colors. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But when his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him and could not speak peaceably to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Joseph had a dream, and he told it to his brothers; and they hated him even more. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he said to them, "Please hear this dream which I have dreamed: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 There we were, binding sheaves in the field. Then behold, my sheaf arose and also stood upright; and indeed your sheaves stood all around and bowed down to my sheaf." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And his brothers said to him, "Shall you indeed reign over us? Or shall you indeed have dominion over us?" So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he dreamed still another dream and told it to his brothers, and said, "Look, I have dreamed another dream. And this time, the sun, the moon, and the eleven stars bowed down to me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he told it to his father and his brothers; and his father rebuked him and said to him, "What is this dream that you have dreamed? Shall your mother and I and your brothers indeed come to bow down to the earth before you?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And his brothers envied him, but his father kept the matter in mind. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then his brothers went to feed their father's flock in Shechem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Israel said to Joseph, "Are not your brothers feeding the flock in Shechem? Come, I will send you to them." So he said to him, "Here I am." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said to him, "Please go and see if it is well with your brothers and well with the flocks, and bring back word to me." So he sent him out of the Valley of Hebron, and he went to Shechem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now a certain man found him, and there he was, wandering in the field. And the man asked him, saying, "What are you seeking?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he said, "I am seeking my brothers. Please tell me where they are feeding their flocks." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the man said, "They have departed from here, for I heard them say, "Let us go to Dothan."' So Joseph went after his brothers and found them in Dothan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now when they saw him afar off, even before he came near them, they conspired against him to kill him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they said to one another, "Look, this dreamer is coming!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Come therefore, let us now kill him and cast him into some pit; and we shall say, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 "Some wild beast has devoured him.' We shall see what will become of his dreams!" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands, and said, "Let us not kill him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Reuben said to them, "Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit which is in the wilderness, and do not lay a hand on him"--that he might deliver him out of their hands, and bring him back to his father. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it came to pass, when Joseph had come to his brothers, that they stripped Joseph of his tunic, the tunic of many colors that was on him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they took him and cast him into a pit. And the pit was empty; there was no water in it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they sat down to eat a meal. Then they lifted their eyes and looked, and there was a company of Ishmaelites, coming from Gilead with their camels, bearing spices, balm, and myrrh, on their way to carry them down to Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Judah said to his brothers, "What profit is there if we kill our brother and conceal his blood? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Come and let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother and our flesh." And his brothers listened. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Midianite traders passed by; so the brothers pulled Joseph up and lifted him out of the pit, and sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty shekels of silver. And they took Joseph to Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Reuben returned to the pit, and indeed Joseph was not in the pit; and he tore his clothes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he returned to his brothers and said, "The lad is no more; and I, where shall I go?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they took Joseph's tunic, killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the tunic in the blood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they sent the tunic of many colors, and they brought it to their father and said, "We have found this. Do you know whether it is your son's tunic or not?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he recognized it and said, "It is my son's tunic. A wild beast has devoured him. Without doubt Joseph is torn to pieces." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob tore his clothes, put sackcloth on his waist, and mourned for his son many days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And all his sons and all his daughters arose to comfort him; but he refused to be comforted, and he said, "For I shall go down into the grave to my son in mourning." Thus his father wept for him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the Midianites had sold him in Egypt to Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh and captain of the guard. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 38
\b0\fs26 \cf3 It came to pass at that time that Judah departed from his brothers, and visited a certain Adullamite whose name was Hirah. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua, and he married her and went in to her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So she conceived and bore a son, and he called his name Er.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 She conceived again and bore a son, and she called his name Onan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And she conceived yet again and bore a son, and called his name Shelah. He was at Chezib when she bore him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, and her name was Tamar.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD, and the LORD killed 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Judah said to Onan, "Go in to your brother's wife and marry her, and raise up an heir to your brother." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Onan knew that the heir would not be his; and it came to pass, when he went in to his brother's wife, that he emitted on the ground, lest he should give an heir to his brother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the thing which he did displeased the LORD; therefore He killed him also. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Judah said to Tamar his daughter-in-law, "Remain a widow in your father's house till my son Shelah is grown." For he said, "Lest he also die like his brothers." And Tamar went and dwelt in her father's house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now in the process of time the daughter of Shua, Judah's wife, died; and Judah was comforted, and went up to his sheepshearers at Timnah, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it was told Tamar, saying, "Look, your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So she took off her widow's garments, covered herself with a veil and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place which was on the way to Timnah; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was not given to him as a wife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Judah saw her, he thought she was a harlot, because she had covered her face. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he turned to her by the way, and said, "Please let me come in to you"; for he did not know that she was his daughter-in-law. So she said, "What will you give me, that you may come in to me?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "I will send a young goat from the flock." So she said, "Will you give me a pledge till you send it? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said, "What pledge shall I give you?" So she said, "Your signet and cord, and your staff that is in your hand." Then he gave them to her, and went in to her, and she conceived by him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So she arose and went away, and laid aside her veil and put on the garments of her widowhood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Judah sent the young goat by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive his pledge from the woman's hand, but he did not find her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he asked the men of that place, saying, "Where is the harlot who was openly by the roadside?" And they said, "There was no harlot in this place." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he returned to Judah and said, "I cannot find her. Also, the men of the place said there was no harlot in this place." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Judah said, "Let her take them for herself, lest we be shamed; for I sent this young goat and you have not found her." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, about three months after, that Judah was told, saying, "Tamar your daughter-in-law has played the harlot; furthermore she is with child by harlotry." So Judah said, "Bring her out and let her be burned!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When she was brought out, she sent to her father-in-law, saying, "By the man to whom these belong, I am with child." And she said, "Please determine whose these are--the signet and cord, and staff." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Judah acknowledged them and said, "She has been more righteous than I, because I did not give her to Shelah my son." And he never knew her again. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it came to pass, at the time for giving birth, that behold, twins were in her womb. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And so it was, when she was giving birth, that the one put out his hand; and the midwife took a scarlet thread and bound it on his hand, saying, "This one came out first." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then it happened, as he drew back his hand, that his brother came out unexpectedly; and she said, "How did you break through? This breach be upon you!" Therefore his name was called Perez. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Afterward his brother came out who had the scarlet thread on his hand. And his name was called Zerah. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 39
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now Joseph had been taken down to Egypt. And Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him from the Ishmaelites who 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 had taken him down there. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The LORD was with Joseph, and he was a successful man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And his master saw that the LORD was with him and that the LORD made all he did to prosper in his hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Joseph found favor in his sight, and served him. Then he made him overseer of his house, and all that he had he put under his authority. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it was, from the time that he had made him overseer of his house and all that he had, that the LORD blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the blessing of the LORD was on all that he had in the house and in the field. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Thus he left all that he had in Joseph's hand, and he did not know what he had except for the bread which he ate. Now Joseph was handsome in form and appearance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass after these things that his master's wife cast longing eyes on Joseph, and she said, "Lie with me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he refused and said to his master's wife, "Look, my master does not know what is with me in the house, and he has committed all that he has to my hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 There is no one greater in this house than I, nor has he kept back anything from me but you, because you are his wife. How then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it was, as she spoke to Joseph day by day, that he did not heed her, to lie with her or to be with her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But it happened about this time, when Joseph went into the house to do his work, and none of the men of the house was inside, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that she caught him by his garment, saying, "Lie with me." But he left his garment in her hand, and fled and ran outside. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And so it was, when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand and fled outside, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that she called to the men of her house and spoke to them, saying, "See, he has brought in to us a Hebrew to mock us. He came in to me to lie with me, and I cried out with a loud voice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it happened, when he heard that I lifted my voice and cried out, that he left his garment with me, and fled and went outside." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So she kept his garment with her until his master came home.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then she spoke to him with words like these, saying, "The Hebrew servant whom 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 you brought to us came in to me to mock me; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 so it happened, as I lifted my voice and cried out, that he left his garment with me and fled outside." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it was, when his master heard the words which his wife spoke to him, saying, "Your servant did to me after this manner," that his anger was aroused. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph's master took him and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were confined. And he was there in the prison. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But the LORD was with Joseph and showed him mercy, and He gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners who were in the prison; whatever they did there, it was his doing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The keeper of the prison did not look into anything that was under Joseph's authority, because the LORD was with him; and whatever he did, the LORD made it prosper. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 40
\b0\fs26 \cf3 It came to pass after these things that the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt offended their lord, the king of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Pharaoh was angry with his two officers, the chief butler and the chief baker. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard, in the prison, the place where Joseph was confined. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them; so they were in custody for a while. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were confined in the prison, had a dream, both of them, each man's dream in one night and each man's dream with its own interpretation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph came in to them in the morning and looked at them, and saw that they were sad. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he asked Pharaoh's officers who were with him in the custody of his lord's house, saying, "Why do you look so sad today?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they said to him, "We each have had a dream, and there is no interpreter of it." So Joseph said to them, "Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell them to me, please." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, "Behold, in my dream a vine was before me, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and in the vine were three branches; it was as though it budded, its blossoms shot forth, and its clusters brought forth ripe grapes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Pharaoh's cup was in my hand; and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph said to him, "This is the interpretation of it: The three branches are three days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now within three days Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your place, and you will put Pharaoh's cup in his hand according to the former manner, when you were his butler. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But remember me when it is well with you, and please show kindness to me; make mention of me to Pharaoh, and get me out of this house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For indeed I was stolen away from the land of the Hebrews; and also I have done nothing here that they should put me into the dungeon." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said to Joseph, "I also was in my dream, and there were three white baskets on my head. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 In the uppermost basket were all kinds of baked goods for Pharaoh, and the birds ate them out of the basket on my head." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Joseph answered and said, "This is the interpretation of it: The three baskets are three days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Within three days Pharaoh will lift off your head from you and hang you on a tree; and the birds will eat your flesh from you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it came to pass on the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast for all his servants; and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he restored the chief butler to his butlership again, and he placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Yet the chief butler did not remember Joseph, but forgot him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 41
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then it came to pass, at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh had a dream; and behold, he stood by the river. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Suddenly there came up out of the river seven cows, fine looking and fat; and they fed in the meadow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then behold, seven other cows came up after them out of the river, ugly and gaunt, and stood by the other cows on the bank of the river. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the ugly and gaunt cows ate up the seven fine looking and fat cows. So Pharaoh awoke. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He slept and dreamed a second time; and suddenly seven heads of grain came up on one stalk, plump and good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then behold, seven thin heads, blighted by the east wind, sprang up after them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the seven thin heads devoured the seven plump and full heads. So Pharaoh awoke, and indeed, it was a dream. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled, and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt and all its wise men. And Pharaoh told them his dreams, but there was no one who could interpret them for Pharaoh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the chief butler spoke to Pharaoh, saying: "I remember my faults this day. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Pharaoh was angry with his servants, and put me in custody in the house of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the captain of the guard, both me and the chief baker, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 we each had a dream in one night, he and I. Each of us dreamed according to the interpretation of his own dream. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now there was a young Hebrew man with us there, a servant of the captain of the guard. And we told him, and he interpreted our dreams for us; to each man he interpreted according to his own dream. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, just as he interpreted for us, so it happened. He restored me to my office, and he hanged him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him quickly out of the dungeon; and he shaved, changed his clothing, and came to Pharaoh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, "I have had a dream, and there is no one who can interpret it. But I have heard it said of you that you can understand a dream, to interpret it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, "It is not in me; God will give Pharaoh an answer of peace." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph: "Behold, in my dream I stood on the bank of the river. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Suddenly seven cows came up out of the river, fine looking and fat; and they fed in 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the meadow. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then behold, seven other cows came up after them, poor and very ugly and gaunt, such ugliness as I have never seen in all the land of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the gaunt and ugly cows ate up the first seven, the fat cows. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When they had eaten them up, no one would have known that they had eaten them, for they were just as ugly as at the beginning. So I awoke. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also I saw in my dream, and suddenly seven heads came up on one stalk, full and good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then behold, seven heads, withered, thin, and blighted by the east wind, sprang up after them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the thin heads devoured the seven good heads. So I told this to the magicians, but there was no one who could explain it to me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph said to Pharaoh, "The dreams of Pharaoh are one; God has shown Pharaoh what He is about to do: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The seven good cows are seven years, and the seven good heads are seven years; the dreams are one. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the seven thin and ugly cows which came up after them are seven years, and the seven empty heads blighted by the east wind are seven years of famine. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 This is the thing which I have spoken to Pharaoh. God has shown Pharaoh what He is about to do. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Indeed seven years of great plenty will come throughout all the land of Egypt;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but after them seven years of famine will arise, and all the plenty will be forgotten in 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the land of Egypt; and the famine will deplete the land. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the plenty will not be known in the land because of the famine following, for it will be very severe. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the dream was repeated to Pharaoh twice because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Now therefore, let Pharaoh select a discerning and wise man, and set him over the land of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land, to collect one-fifth of the produce of the land of Egypt in the seven plentiful years. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And let them gather all the food of those good years that are coming, and store up grain under the authority of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then that food shall be as a reserve for the land for the seven years of famine which shall be in the land of Egypt, that the land may not perish during the famine." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the advice was good in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of all his servants. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Pharaoh said to his servants, "Can we find such a one as this, a man in whom 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 is the Spirit of God?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Inasmuch as God has shown you all this, there is no one as discerning and wise as you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall be over my house, and all my people shall be ruled according to your word; only in regard to the throne will I be greater than you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, "See, I have set you over all the land of Egypt." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Pharaoh took his signet ring off his hand and put it on Joseph's hand; and he 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 clothed him in garments of fine linen and put a gold chain around his neck. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he had him ride in the second chariot which he had; and they cried out before him, "Bow the knee!" So he set him over all the land of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Pharaoh also said to Joseph, "I am Pharaoh, and without your consent no man may lift his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnath-Paaneah. And he gave him as a wife Asenath, the daughter of Poti-Pherah priest of On. So Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now in the seven plentiful years the ground brought forth abundantly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities; he laid up in every city the food of the fields which surrounded them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Joseph gathered very much grain, as the sand of the sea, until he stopped counting, for it was immeasurable. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And to Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, whom Asenath, the daughter of Poti-Pherah priest of On, bore to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: "For God has made me forget all my toil and all my father's house." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the name of the second he called Ephraim: "For God has caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 53
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the seven years of plenty which were in the land of Egypt ended,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 54
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and the seven years of famine began to come, as Joseph had said. The famine 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 was in all lands, but in all the land of Egypt there was bread. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 55
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. Then Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, "Go to Joseph; whatever he says to you, do." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 56
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The famine was over all the face of the earth, and Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians. And the famine became severe in the land of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 57
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So all countries came to Joseph in Egypt to buy grain, because the famine was severe in all lands. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 42
\b0\fs26 \cf3 When Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, Jacob said to his sons, "Why do you look at one another?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "Indeed I have heard that there is grain in Egypt; go down to that place and buy for us there, that we may live and not die." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Joseph's ten brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Jacob did not send Joseph's brother Benjamin with his brothers, for he said, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 "Lest some calamity befall him." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the sons of Israel went to buy grain among those who journeyed, for the famine was in the land of Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now Joseph was governor over the land; and it was he who sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brothers came and bowed down before him with their faces to the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Joseph saw his brothers and recognized them, but he acted as a stranger to them and spoke roughly to them. Then he said to them, "Where do you come from?" And they said, "From the land of Canaan to buy food." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph remembered the dreams which he had dreamed about them, and said 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 to them, "You are spies! You have come to see the nakedness of the land!" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they said to him, "No, my lord, but your servants have come to buy food. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 We are all one man's sons; we are honest men; your servants are not spies." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he said to them, "No, but you have come to see the nakedness of the land." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they said, "Your servants are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and in fact, the youngest is with our father today, and one is no more." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Joseph said to them, "It is as I spoke to you, saying, "You are spies!'\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 In this manner you shall be tested: By the life of Pharaoh, you shall not leave this 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 place unless your youngest brother comes here. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Send one of you, and let him bring your brother; and you shall be kept in prison, that your words may be tested to see whether there is any truth in you; or else, by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he put them all together in prison three days.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph said to them the third day, "Do this and live, for I fear God: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If you are honest men, let one of your brothers be confined to your prison house; but you, go and carry grain for the famine of your houses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And bring your youngest brother to me; so your words will be verified, and you shall not die." And they did so. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they said to one another, "We are truly guilty concerning our brother, for we saw the anguish of his soul when he pleaded with us, and we would not hear; therefore this distress has come upon us." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Reuben answered them, saying, "Did I not speak to you, saying, "Do not sin against the boy'; and you would not listen? Therefore behold, his blood is now required of us." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But they did not know that Joseph understood them, for he spoke to them through an interpreter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he turned himself away from them and wept. Then he returned to them again, and talked with them. And he took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph gave a command to fill their sacks with grain, to restore every man's money to his sack, and to give them provisions for the journey. Thus he did for them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they loaded their donkeys with the grain and departed from there.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But as one of them opened his sack to give his donkey feed at the encampment, he 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 saw his money; and there it was, in the mouth of his sack. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he said to his brothers, "My money has been restored, and there it is, in my sack!" Then their hearts failed them and they were afraid, saying to one another, "What is this that God has done to us?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they went to Jacob their father in the land of Canaan and told him all that had happened to them, saying: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "The man who is lord of the land spoke roughly to us, and took us for spies of the country. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But we said to him, "We are honest men; we are not spies.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 We are twelve brothers, sons of our father; one is no more, and the youngest is with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 our father this day in the land of Canaan.' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the man, the lord of the country, said to us, "By this I will know that you are honest men: Leave one of your brothers here with me, take food for the famine of your households, and be gone. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And bring your youngest brother to me; so I shall know that you are not spies, but that you are honest men. I will grant your brother to you, and you may trade in the land."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then it happened as they emptied their sacks, that surprisingly each man's bundle of money was in his sack; and when they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob their father said to them, "You have bereaved me: Joseph is no more, Simeon is no more, and you want to take Benjamin. All these things are against me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Reuben spoke to his father, saying, "Kill my two sons if I do not bring him back to you; put him in my hands, and I will bring him back to you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he said, "My son shall not go down with you, for his brother is dead, and he is left alone. If any calamity should befall him along the way in which you go, then you would bring down my gray hair with sorrow to the grave." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 43
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now the famine was severe in the land.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the grain which they had brought from 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Egypt, that their father said to them, "Go back, buy us a little food." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But Judah spoke to him, saying, "The man solemnly warned us, saying, "You shall not see my face unless your brother is with you.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 If you send our brother with us, we will go down and buy you food.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But if you will not send him, we will not go down; for the man said to us, "You shall 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 not see my face unless your brother is with you."' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Israel said, "Why did you deal so wrongfully with me as to tell the man whether you had still another brother?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But they said, "The man asked us pointedly about ourselves and our family, saying, "Is your father still alive? Have you another brother?' And we told him according to these words. Could we possibly have known that he would say, "Bring your brother down'?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Judah said to Israel his father, "Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go, that we may live and not die, both we and you and also our little ones. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I myself will be surety for him; from my hand you shall require him. If I do not bring him back to you and set him before you, then let me bear the blame forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For if we had not lingered, surely by now we would have returned this second time." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And their father Israel said to them, "If it must be so, then do this: Take some of the best fruits of the land in your vessels and carry down a present for the man--a little balm and a little honey, spices and myrrh, pistachio nuts and almonds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Take double money in your hand, and take back in your hand the money that was returned in the mouth of your sacks; perhaps it was an oversight. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Take your brother also, and arise, go back to the man.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And may God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may release your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 other brother and Benjamin. If I am bereaved, I am bereaved!" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the men took that present and Benjamin, and they took double money in their hand, and arose and went down to Egypt; and they stood before Joseph. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the steward of his house, "Take these men to my home, and slaughter an animal and make ready; for these men will dine with me at noon." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the man did as Joseph ordered, and the man brought the men into Joseph's house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the men were afraid because they were brought into Joseph's house; and they said, "It is because of the money, which was returned in our sacks the first time, that we are brought in, so that he may make a case against us and seize us, to take us as slaves with our donkeys." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When they drew near to the steward of Joseph's house, they talked with him at the door of the house, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and said, "O sir, we indeed came down the first time to buy food; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but it happened, when we came to the encampment, that we opened our sacks, and there, each man's money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight; so we have brought it back in our hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And we have brought down other money in our hands to buy food. We do not know who put our money in our sacks." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he said, "Peace be with you, do not be afraid. Your God and the God of your father has given you treasure in your sacks; I had your money." Then he brought Simeon out to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So the man brought the men into Joseph's house and gave them water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their donkeys feed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they made the present ready for Joseph's coming at noon, for they heard that they would eat bread there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house, and bowed down before him to the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he asked them about their well-being, and said, "Is your father well, the old man of whom you spoke? Is he still alive?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they answered, "Your servant our father is in good health; he is still alive." And they bowed their heads down and prostrated themselves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he lifted his eyes and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, "Is this your younger brother of whom you spoke to me?" And he said, "God be gracious to you, my son." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now his heart yearned for his brother; so Joseph made haste and sought somewhere to weep. And he went into his chamber and wept there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he washed his face and came out; and he restrained himself, and said, "Serve the bread." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they set him a place by himself, and them by themselves, and the Egyptians who ate with him by themselves; because the Egyptians could not eat food with the Hebrews, for that is an abomination to the Egyptians. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright and the youngest according to his youth; and the men looked in astonishment at one another. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he took servings to them from before him, but Benjamin's serving was five times as much as any of theirs. So they drank and were merry with him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 44
\b0\fs26 \cf3 And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, "Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put each man's money in the mouth of his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 sack. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also put my cup, the silver cup, in the mouth of the sack of the youngest, and his grain money." So he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 As soon as the morning dawned, the men were sent away, they and their donkeys. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When they had gone out of the city, and were not yet far off, Joseph said to his steward, "Get up, follow the men; and when you overtake them, say to them, "Why have you repaid evil for good? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Is not this the one from which my lord drinks, and with which he indeed practices divination? You have done evil in so doing."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he overtook them, and he spoke to them these same words.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they said to him, "Why does my lord say these words? Far be it from us that 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 your servants should do such a thing. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Look, we brought back to you from the land of Canaan the money which we found in the mouth of our sacks. How then could we steal silver or gold from your lord's house? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 With whomever of your servants it is found, let him die, and we also will be my lord's slaves." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he said, "Now also let it be according to your words; he with whom it is found shall be my slave, and you shall be blameless." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then each man speedily let down his sack to the ground, and each opened his sack. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he searched. He began with the oldest and left off with the youngest; and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they tore their clothes, and each man loaded his donkey and returned to the city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Judah and his brothers came to Joseph's house, and he was still there; and they fell before him on the ground. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph said to them, "What deed is this you have done? Did you not know that such a man as I can certainly practice divination?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Judah said, "What shall we say to my lord? What shall we speak? Or how shall we clear ourselves? God has found out the iniquity of your servants; here we are, my lord's slaves, both we and he also with whom the cup was found." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But he said, "Far be it from me that I should do so; the man in whose hand the cup was found, he shall be my slave. And as for you, go up in peace to your father." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Judah came near to him and said: "O my lord, please let your servant speak a word in my lord's hearing, and do not let your anger burn against your servant; for you are even like Pharaoh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 My lord asked his servants, saying, "Have you a father or a brother?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And we said to my lord, "We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, who is young; his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother's children, and his father loves him.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then you said to your servants, "Bring him down to me, that I may set my eyes on him.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And we said to my lord, "The lad cannot leave his father, for if he should leave his father, his father would die.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But you said to your servants, "Unless your youngest brother comes down with you, you shall see my face no more.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "So it was, when we went up to your servant my father, that we told him the words of my lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And our father said, "Go back and buy us a little food.'\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But we said, "We cannot go down; if our youngest brother is with us, then we will go 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 down; for we may not see the man's face unless our youngest brother is with us.' 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then your servant my father said to us, "You know that my wife bore me two sons; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and the one went out from me, and I said, "Surely he is torn to pieces"; and I have not seen him since. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But if you take this one also from me, and calamity befalls him, you shall bring down my gray hair with sorrow to the grave.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Now therefore, when I come to your servant my father, and the lad is not with us, since his life is bound up in the lad's life, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 it will happen, when he sees that the lad is not with us, that he will die. So your servants will bring down the gray hair of your servant our father with sorrow to the grave. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For your servant became surety for the lad to my father, saying, "If I do not bring him back to you, then I shall bear the blame before my father forever.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, please let your servant remain instead of the lad as a slave to my lord, and let the lad go up with his brothers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For how shall I go up to my father if the lad is not with me, lest perhaps I see the evil that would come upon my father?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 45
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then Joseph could not restrain himself before all those who stood by him, and he cried out, "Make everyone go out from me!" So no one stood with him while 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Joseph made himself known to his brothers.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he wept aloud, and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard it. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph said to his brothers, "I am Joseph; does my father still live?" But his brothers could not answer him, for they were dismayed in his presence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph said to his brothers, "Please come near to me." So they came near. Then he said: "I am Joseph your brother, whom you sold into Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But now, do not therefore be grieved or angry with yourselves because you sold me here; for God sent me before you to preserve life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For these two years the famine has been in the land, and there are still five years in which there will be neither plowing nor harvesting. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And God sent me before you to preserve a posterity for you in the earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So now it was not you who sent me here, but God; and He has made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Hurry and go up to my father, and say to him, "Thus says your son Joseph: "God has made me lord of all Egypt; come down to me, do not tarry. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 You shall dwell in the land of Goshen, and you shall be near to me, you and your children, your children's children, your flocks and your herds, and all that you have. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 There I will provide for you, lest you and your household, and all that you have, come to poverty; for there are still five years of famine."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "And behold, your eyes and the eyes of my brother Benjamin see that it is my mouth that speaks to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So you shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all that you have seen; and you shall hurry and bring my father down here." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he fell on his brother Benjamin's neck and wept, and Benjamin wept on his neck. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Moreover he kissed all his brothers and wept over them, and after that his brothers talked with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the report of it was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying, "Joseph's brothers have come." So it pleased Pharaoh and his servants well. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Pharaoh said to Joseph, "Say to your brothers, "Do this: Load your animals and depart; go to the land of Canaan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Bring your father and your households and come to me; I will give you the best of the land of Egypt, and you will eat the fat of the land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now you are commanded--do this: Take carts out of the land of Egypt for your little ones and your wives; bring your father and come. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Also do not be concerned about your goods, for the best of all the land of Egypt is yours."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then the sons of Israel did so; and Joseph gave them carts, according to the command of Pharaoh, and he gave them provisions for the journey. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He gave to all of them, to each man, changes of garments; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of garments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he sent to his father these things: ten donkeys loaded with the good things of Egypt, and ten female donkeys loaded with grain, bread, and food for his father for the journey. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he sent his brothers away, and they departed; and he said to them, "See that you do not become troubled along the way." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they went up out of Egypt, and came to the land of Canaan to Jacob their father. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they told him, saying, "Joseph is still alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt." And Jacob's heart stood still, because he did not believe them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But when they told him all the words which Joseph had said to them, and when he saw the carts which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Israel said, "It is enough. Joseph my son is still alive. I will go and see him before I die." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 46
\b0\fs26 \cf3 So Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then God spoke to Israel in the visions of the night, and said, "Jacob, Jacob!" And he said, "Here I am." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So He said, "I am God, the God of your father; do not fear to go down to Egypt, for I will make of you a great nation there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I will go down with you to Egypt, and I will also surely bring you up again; and Joseph will put his hand on your eyes." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob arose from Beersheba; and the sons of Israel carried their father Jacob, their little ones, and their wives, in the carts which Pharaoh had sent to carry him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they took their livestock and their goods, which they had acquired in the land of Canaan, and went to Egypt, Jacob and all his descendants with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 His sons and his sons' sons, his daughters and his sons' daughters, and all his descendants he brought with him to Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now these were the names of the children of Israel, Jacob and his sons, who went to Egypt: Reuben was Jacob's firstborn. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Reuben were Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Simeon were Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 of a Canaanite woman.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Judah were Er, Onan, Shelah, Perez, and Zerah (but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan). The sons of Perez were Hezron and Hamul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Issachar were Tola, Puvah, Job, and Shimron. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Zebulun were Sered, Elon, and Jahleel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Padan Aram, with his daughter Dinah. All the persons, his sons and his daughters, were thirty-three. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Gad were Ziphion, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi, and Areli.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Asher were Jimnah, Ishuah, Isui, Beriah, and Serah, their sister. And 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 the sons of Beriah were Heber and Malchiel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter; and these she bore to Jacob: sixteen persons. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife, were Joseph and Benjamin.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And to Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, whom 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Asenath, the daughter of Poti-Pherah priest of On, bore to him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Benjamin were Belah, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Rachel, who were born to Jacob: fourteen persons in all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The son of Dan was Hushim. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The sons of Naphtali were Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 These were the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel his daughter, and she bore these to Jacob: seven persons in all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 All the persons who went with Jacob to Egypt, who came from his body, besides Jacob's sons' wives, were sixty-six persons in all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the sons of Joseph who were born to him in Egypt were two persons. All the persons of the house of Jacob who went to Egypt were seventy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he sent Judah before him to Joseph, to point out before him the way to Goshen. And they came to the land of Goshen. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Joseph made ready his chariot and went up to Goshen to meet his father Israel; and he presented himself to him, and fell on his neck and wept on his neck a good while. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Israel said to Joseph, "Now let me die, since I have seen your face, because you are still alive." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph said to his brothers and to his father's household, "I will go up and tell Pharaoh, and say to him, "My brothers and those of my father's house, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And the men are shepherds, for their occupation has been to feed livestock; and they have brought their flocks, their herds, and all that they have.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So it shall be, when Pharaoh calls you and says, "What is your occupation?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 that you shall say, "Your servants' occupation has been with livestock from our youth even till now, both we and also our fathers,' that you may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 47
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then Joseph went and told Pharaoh, and said, "My father and my brothers, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 their flocks and their herds and all that they possess, have come from the land of Canaan; and indeed they are in the land of Goshen." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he took five men from among his brothers and presented them to Pharaoh. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Pharaoh said to his brothers, "What is your occupation?" And they said to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Pharaoh, "Your servants are shepherds, both we and also our fathers." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And they said to Pharaoh, "We have come to dwell in the land, because your servants have no pasture for their flocks, for the famine is severe in the land of Canaan. Now therefore, please let your servants dwell in the land of Goshen." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Pharaoh spoke to Joseph, saying, "Your father and your brothers have come to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The land of Egypt is before you. Have your father and brothers dwell in the best of the land; let them dwell in the land of Goshen. And if you know any competent men among them, then make them chief herdsmen over my livestock." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph brought in his father Jacob and set him before Pharaoh; and Jacob blessed Pharaoh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Pharaoh said to Jacob, "How old are you?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob said to Pharaoh, "The days of the years of my pilgrimage are one hundred and thirty years; few and evil have been the days of the years of my life, and they have not attained to the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph situated his father and his brothers, and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph provided his father, his brothers, and all his father's household with bread, according to the number in their families. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was very severe, so that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished because of the famine. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, for the grain which they bought; and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So when the money failed in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, "Give us bread, for why should we die in your presence? For the money has failed." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph said, "Give your livestock, and I will give you bread for your livestock, if the money is gone." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they brought their livestock to Joseph, and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for the horses, the flocks, the cattle of the herds, and for the donkeys. Thus he fed them with bread in exchange for all their livestock that year. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When that year had ended, they came to him the next year and said to him, "We will not hide from my lord that our money is gone; my lord also has our herds of livestock. There is nothing left in the sight of my lord but our bodies and our lands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants of Pharaoh; give us seed, that we may live and not die, that the land may not be desolate." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for every man of the Egyptians sold his field, because the famine was severe upon them. So the land became Pharaoh's. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And as for the people, he moved them into the cities, from one end of the borders of Egypt to the other end. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Only the land of the priests he did not buy; for the priests had rations allotted to them by Pharaoh, and they ate their rations which Pharaoh gave them; therefore they did not sell their lands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph said to the people, "Indeed I have bought you and your land this day for Pharaoh. Look, here is seed for you, and you shall sow the land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And it shall come to pass in the harvest that you shall give one-fifth to Pharaoh. Four-fifths shall be your own, as seed for the field and for your food, for those of your households and as food for your little ones." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they said, "You have saved our lives; let us find favor in the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt to this day, that Pharaoh should have one-fifth, except for the land of the priests only, which did not become Pharaoh's. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen; and they had possessions there and grew and multiplied exceedingly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years. So the length of Jacob's life was one hundred and forty-seven years. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When the time drew near that Israel must die, he called his son Joseph and said to him, "Now if I have found favor in your sight, please put your hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me. Please do not bury me in Egypt, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 but let me lie with my fathers; you shall carry me out of Egypt and bury me in their burial place." And he said, "I will do as you have said." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he said, "Swear to me." And he swore to him. So Israel bowed himself on the head of the bed. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 48
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Now it came to pass after these things that Joseph was told, "Indeed your father is sick"; and he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Jacob was told, "Look, your son Joseph is coming to you"; and Israel strengthened himself and sat up on the bed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Jacob said to Joseph: "God Almighty appeared to me at Luz in the land of Canaan and blessed me, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 and said to me, "Behold, I will make you fruitful and multiply you, and I will make of you a multitude of people, and give this land to your descendants after you as an everlasting possession.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And now your two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, who were born to you in the land of Egypt before I came to you in Egypt, are mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Your offspring whom you beget after them shall be yours; they will be called by the name of their brothers in their inheritance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died beside me in the land of Canaan on the way, when there was but a little distance to go to Ephrath; and I buried her there on the way to Ephrath (that is, Bethlehem)." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Israel saw Joseph's sons, and said, "Who are these?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Joseph said to his father, "They are my sons, whom God has given me in this place." And he said, "Please bring them to me, and I will bless them." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now the eyes of Israel were dim with age, so that he could not see. Then Joseph brought them near him, and he kissed them and embraced them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Israel said to Joseph, "I had not thought to see your face; but in fact, God has also shown me your offspring!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Joseph brought them from beside his knees, and he bowed down with his face to the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph took them both, Ephraim with his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh with his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought them near him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Israel stretched out his right hand and laid it on Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand on Manasseh's head, guiding his hands knowingly, for Manasseh was the firstborn. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And he blessed Joseph, and said: "God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked, The God who has fed me all my life long to this day, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The Angel who has redeemed me from all evil, Bless the lads; Let my name be named upon them, And the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; And let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand on the head of Ephraim, it displeased him; so he took hold of his father's hand to remove it from Ephraim's head to Manasseh's head. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph said to his father, "Not so, my father, for this one is the firstborn; put your right hand on his head." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But his father refused and said, "I know, my son, I know. He also shall become a people, and he also shall be great; but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his descendants shall become a multitude of nations." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So he blessed them that day, saying, "By you Israel will bless, saying, "May God make you as Ephraim and as Manasseh!"' And thus he set Ephraim before Manasseh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Israel said to Joseph, "Behold, I am dying, but God will be with you and bring you back to the land of your fathers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Moreover I have given to you one portion above your brothers, which I took from the hand of the Amorite with my sword and my bow." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 49
\b0\fs26 \cf3 And Jacob called his sons and said, "Gather together, that I may tell you what shall befall you in the last days: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Gather together and hear, you sons of Jacob, And listen to Israel your father. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Reuben, you are my firstborn, My might and the beginning of my strength, The 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 excellency of dignity and the excellency of power. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Unstable as water, you shall not excel, Because you went up to your father's bed; Then you defiled it-- He went up to my couch. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Simeon and Levi are brothers; Instruments of cruelty are in their dwelling place. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Let not my soul enter their council; Let not my honor be united to their assembly; For 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 in their anger they slew a man, And in their self-will they hamstrung an ox. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce; And their wrath, for it is cruel! I will divide them in Jacob And scatter them in Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Judah, you are he whom your brothers shall praise; Your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies; Your father's children shall bow down before you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Judah is a lion's whelp; From the prey, my son, you have gone up. He bows down, he lies down as a lion; And as a lion, who shall rouse him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The scepter shall not depart from Judah, Nor a lawgiver from between his feet, Until Shiloh comes; And to Him shall be the obedience of the people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Binding his donkey to the vine, And his donkey's colt to the choice vine, He washed his garments in wine, And his clothes in the blood of grapes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 His eyes are darker than wine, And his teeth whiter than milk. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Zebulun shall dwell by the haven of the sea; He shall become a haven for ships, And his border shall adjoin Sidon. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Issachar is a strong donkey, Lying down between two burdens;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 He saw that rest was good, And that the land was pleasant; He bowed his shoulder 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 to bear a burden, And became a band of slaves.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Dan shall judge his people As one of the tribes of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Dan shall be a serpent by the way, A viper by the path, That bites the horse's heels So that its rider shall fall backward. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 I have waited for your salvation, O LORD!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Gad, a troop shall tramp upon him, But he shall triumph at last.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Bread from Asher shall be rich, And he shall yield royal dainties.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Naphtali is a deer let loose; He uses beautiful words.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Joseph is a fruitful bough, A fruitful bough by a well; His branches run over the wall. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The archers have bitterly grieved him, Shot at him and hated him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But his bow remained in strength, And the arms of his hands were made strong By the hands of the Mighty God of Jacob (From there is the Shepherd, the Stone of Israel), 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 By the God of your father who will help you, And by the Almighty who will bless you With blessings of heaven above, Blessings of the deep that lies beneath, Blessings of the breasts and of the womb. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The blessings of your father Have excelled the blessings of my ancestors, Up to the utmost bound of the everlasting hills. They shall be on the head of Joseph, And on the crown of the head of him who was separate from his brothers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Benjamin is a ravenous wolf; In the morning he shall devour the prey, And at night he shall divide the spoil." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 All these are the twelve tribes of Israel, and this is what their father spoke to them. And he blessed them; he blessed each one according to his own blessing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then he charged them and said to them: "I am to be gathered to my people; bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 in the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite as a possession for a burial place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife, there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife, and there I buried Leah. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 The field and the cave that is there were purchased from the sons of Heth."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when Jacob had finished commanding his sons, he drew his feet up into the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 bed and breathed his last, and was gathered to his people.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 50
\b0\fs26 \cf3 Then Joseph fell on his father's face and wept over him, and kissed him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father. So the physicians embalmed Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Forty days were required for him, for such are the days required for those who are embalmed; and the Egyptians mourned for him seventy days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spoke to the household of Pharaoh, saying, "If now I have found favor in your eyes, please speak in the hearing of Pharaoh, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "My father made me swear, saying, "Behold, I am dying; in my grave which I dug for myself in the land of Canaan, there you shall bury me." Now therefore, please let me go up and bury my father, and I will come back."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Pharaoh said, "Go up and bury your father, as he made you swear."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Joseph went up to bury his father; and with him went up all the servants of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 as well as all the house of Joseph, his brothers, and his father's house. Only their little ones, their flocks, and their herds they left in the land of Goshen. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen, and it was a very great gathering. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then they came to the threshing floor of Atad, which is beyond the Jordan, and they mourned there with a great and very solemn lamentation. He observed seven days of mourning for his father. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning at the threshing floor of Atad, they said, "This is a deep mourning of the Egyptians." Therefore its name was called Abel Mizraim, which is beyond the Jordan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So his sons did for him just as he had commanded them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 For his sons carried him to the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, before Mamre, which Abraham bought with the field from Ephron the Hittite as property for a burial place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And after he had buried his father, Joseph returned to Egypt, he and his brothers and all who went up with him to bury his father. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, "Perhaps Joseph will hate us, and may actually repay us for all the evil which we did to him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So they sent messengers to Joseph, saying, "Before your father died he commanded, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 "Thus you shall say to Joseph: "I beg you, please forgive the trespass of your brothers and their sin; for they did evil to you."' Now, please, forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of your father." And Joseph wept when they spoke to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then his brothers also went and fell down before his face, and they said, "Behold, we are your servants." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Joseph said to them, "Do not be afraid, for am I in the place of God?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 But as for you, you meant evil against me; but God meant it for good, in order to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26 \cf3 bring it about as it is this day, to save many people alive. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, do not be afraid; I will provide for you and your little ones." And he comforted them and spoke kindly to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he and his father's household. And Joseph lived one hundred and ten years. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Joseph saw Ephraim's children to the third generation. The children of Machir, the son of Manasseh, were also brought up on Joseph's knees. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 And Joseph said to his brethren, "I am dying; but God will surely visit you, and bring you out of this land to the land of which He swore to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 Then Joseph took an oath from the children of Israel, saying, "God will surely visit you, and you shall carry up my bones from here." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26 \cf3 \up0 So Joseph died, being one hundred and ten years old; and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0  \
}