{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red190\green0\blue4;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c39608\c80000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c80000\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Job 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job; and that man was blameless and upright, and one who feared God and shunned evil. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And seven sons and three daughters were born to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also, his possessions were seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen, five hundred female donkeys, and a very large household, so that this man was the greatest of all the people of the East. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And his sons would go and feast in their houses, each on his appointed day, and would send and invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So it was, when the days of feasting had run their course, that Job would send and sanctify them, and he would rise early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, "It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts." Thus Job did regularly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan also came among them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said to Satan, "From where do you come?" So Satan answered the LORD and said, "From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking back and forth on it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD said to Satan, "Have you considered My servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, one who fears God and shuns evil?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Satan answered the LORD and said, "Does Job fear God for nothing? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have You not made a hedge around him, around his household, and around all that he has on every side? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But now, stretch out Your hand and touch all that he has, and he will surely curse You to Your face!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said to Satan, "Behold, all that he has is in your power; only do not lay a hand on his person." So Satan went out from the presence of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now there was a day when his sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and a messenger came to Job and said, "The oxen were plowing and the donkeys feeding beside them, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 when the Sabeans raided them and took them away--indeed they have killed the servants with the edge of the sword; and I alone have escaped to tell you!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 While he was still speaking, another also came and said, "The fire of God fell from heaven and burned up the sheep and the servants, and consumed them; and I alone have escaped to tell you!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 While he was still speaking, another also came and said, "The Chaldeans formed three bands, raided the camels and took them away, yes, and killed the servants with the edge of the sword; and I alone have escaped to tell you!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 While he was still speaking, another also came and said, "Your sons and daughters were eating and drinking wine in their oldest brother's house, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 and suddenly a great wind came from across the wilderness and struck the four corners of the house, and it fell on the young people, and they are dead; and I alone have escaped to tell you!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Job arose, tore his robe, and shaved his head; and he fell to the ground and worshiped. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he said: "Naked I came from my mother's womb, And naked shall I return there. The LORD gave, and the LORD has taken away; Blessed be the name of the LORD." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In all this Job did not sin nor charge God with wrong. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 2
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them to present himself before the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said to Satan, "From where do you come?" Satan answered the LORD and said, "From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking back and forth on it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD said to Satan, "Have you considered My servant Job, that there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, one who fears God and shuns evil? And still he holds fast to his integrity, although you incited Me against him, to destroy him without cause." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Satan answered the LORD and said, "Skin for skin! Yes, all that a man has he will give for his life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But stretch out Your hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will surely curse You to Your face!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD said to Satan, "Behold, he is in your hand, but spare his life."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Satan went out from the presence of the LORD, and struck Job with painful boils 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he took for himself a potsherd with which to scrape himself while he sat in the midst of the ashes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then his wife said to him, "Do you still hold fast to your integrity? Curse God and die!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he said to her, "You speak as one of the foolish women speaks. Shall we indeed accept good from God, and shall we not accept adversity?" In all this Job did not sin with his lips. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now when Job's three friends heard of all this adversity that had come upon him, each one came from his own place--Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite. For they had made an appointment together to come and mourn with him, and to comfort him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And when they raised their eyes from afar, and did not recognize him, they lifted their voices and wept; and each one tore his robe and sprinkled dust on his head toward heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So they sat down with him on the ground seven days and seven nights, and no one spoke a word to him, for they saw that his grief was very great. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 3
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 After this Job opened his mouth and cursed the day of his birth. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Job spoke, and said: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "May the day perish on which I was born, And the night in which it was said, "A male child is conceived.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May that day be darkness; May God above not seek it, Nor the light shine upon it. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May darkness and the shadow of death claim it; May a cloud settle on it; May the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 blackness of the day terrify it. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for that night, may darkness seize it; May it not rejoice among the days of the year, May it not come into the number of the months. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, may that night be barren! May no joyful shout come into it!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May those curse it who curse the day, Those who are ready to arouse Leviathan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May the stars of its morning be dark; May it look for light, but have none, And not see the dawning of the day; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because it did not shut up the doors of my mother's womb, Nor hide sorrow from my eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Why did I not die at birth? Why did I not perish when I came from the womb? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why did the knees receive me? Or why the breasts, that I should nurse? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For now I would have lain still and been quiet, I would have been asleep; Then I would have been at rest 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With kings and counselors of the earth, Who built ruins for themselves,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or with princes who had gold, Who filled their houses with silver;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or why was I not hidden like a stillborn child, Like infants who never saw light? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There the wicked cease from troubling, And there the weary are at rest. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There the prisoners rest together; They do not hear the voice of the oppressor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The small and great are there, And the servant is free from his master. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Why is light given to him who is in misery, And life to the bitter of soul, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who long for death, but it does not come, And search for it more than hidden treasures; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who rejoice exceedingly, And are glad when they can find the grave? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why is light given to a man whose way is hidden, And whom God has hedged in? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For my sighing comes before I eat, And my groanings pour out like water. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the thing I greatly feared has come upon me, And what I dreaded has happened to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am not at ease, nor am I quiet; I have no rest, for trouble comes." 
\b\fs64 \cf4 4
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If one attempts a word with you, will you become weary? But who can withhold himself from speaking? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely you have instructed many, And you have strengthened weak hands.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your words have upheld him who was stumbling, And you have strengthened the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 feeble knees; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But now it comes upon you, and you are weary; It touches you, and you are troubled. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is not your reverence your confidence? And the integrity of your ways your hope? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Remember now, who ever perished being innocent? Or where were the upright ever cut off? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even as I have seen, Those who plow iniquity And sow trouble reap the same.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By the blast of God they perish, And by the breath of His anger they are consumed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The roaring of the lion, The voice of the fierce lion, And the teeth of the young lions are broken. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The old lion perishes for lack of prey, And the cubs of the lioness are scattered. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now a word was secretly brought to me, And my ear received a whisper of it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In disquieting thoughts from the visions of the night, When deep sleep falls on men, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Fear came upon me, and trembling, Which made all my bones shake. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then a spirit passed before my face; The hair on my body stood up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It stood still, But I could not discern its appearance. A form was before my eyes; There was silence; Then I heard a voice saying: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Can a mortal be more righteous than God? Can a man be more pure than his Maker? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If He puts no trust in His servants, If He charges His angels with error,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How much more those who dwell in houses of clay, Whose foundation is in the dust, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Who are crushed before a moth? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are broken in pieces from morning till evening; They perish forever, with no one regarding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Does not their own excellence go away? They die, even without wisdom.'\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 5
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "Call out now; Is there anyone who will answer you? And to which of the holy ones 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 will you turn?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For wrath kills a foolish man, And envy slays a simple one.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have seen the foolish taking root, But suddenly I cursed his dwelling place.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His sons are far from safety, They are crushed in the gate, And there is no deliverer. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because the hungry eat up his harvest, Taking it even from the thorns, And a snare snatches their substance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For affliction does not come from the dust, Nor does trouble spring from the ground; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet man is born to trouble, As the sparks fly upward.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But as for me, I would seek God, And to God I would commit my cause--\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who does great things, and unsearchable, Marvelous things without number. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He gives rain on the earth, And sends waters on the fields.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sets on high those who are lowly, And those who mourn are lifted to safety. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He frustrates the devices of the crafty, So that their hands cannot carry out their plans. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He catches the wise in their own craftiness, And the counsel of the cunning comes quickly upon them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They meet with darkness in the daytime, And grope at noontime as in the night. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But He saves the needy from the sword, From the mouth of the mighty, And from 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 their hand.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the poor have hope, And injustice shuts her mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Behold, happy is the man whom God corrects; Therefore do not despise the chastening of the Almighty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He bruises, but He binds up; He wounds, but His hands make whole. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall deliver you in six troubles, Yes, in seven no evil shall touch you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In famine He shall redeem you from death, And in war from the power of the sword. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, And you shall not be afraid of destruction when it comes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall laugh at destruction and famine, And you shall not be afraid of the beasts of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you shall have a covenant with the stones of the field, And the beasts of the field shall be at peace with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall know that your tent is in peace; You shall visit your dwelling and find nothing amiss. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall also know that your descendants shall be many, And your offspring like the grass of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall come to the grave at a full age, As a sheaf of grain ripens in its season. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, this we have searched out; It is true. Hear it, and know for yourself." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 6
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Job answered and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Oh, that my grief were fully weighed, And my calamity laid with it on the scales! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For then it would be heavier than the sand of the sea-- Therefore my words have been rash. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the arrows of the Almighty are within me; My spirit drinks in their poison; The terrors of God are arrayed against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Does the wild donkey bray when it has grass, Or does the ox low over its fodder? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Can flavorless food be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 egg? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul refuses to touch them; They are as loathsome food to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Oh, that I might have my request, That God would grant me the thing that I long for! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That it would please God to crush me, That He would loose His hand and cut me off! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I would still have comfort; Though in anguish I would exult, He will not spare; For I have not concealed the words of the Holy One. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "What strength do I have, that I should hope? And what is my end, that I should prolong my life? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is my strength the strength of stones? Or is my flesh bronze? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is my help not within me? And is success driven from me? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "To him who is afflicted, kindness should be shown by his friend, Even though he forsakes the fear of the Almighty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My brothers have dealt deceitfully like a brook, Like the streams of the brooks that pass away, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Which are dark because of the ice, And into which the snow vanishes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When it is warm, they cease to flow; When it is hot, they vanish from their place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The paths of their way turn aside, They go nowhere and perish. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The caravans of Tema look, The travelers of Sheba hope for them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are disappointed because they were confident; They come there and are confused. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For now you are nothing, You see terror and are afraid.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Did I ever say, "Bring something to me'? Or, "Offer a bribe for me from your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wealth'? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or, "Deliver me from the enemy's hand'? Or, "Redeem me from the hand of oppressors'? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Teach me, and I will hold my tongue; Cause me to understand wherein I have erred. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How forceful are right words! But what does your arguing prove?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you intend to rebuke my words, And the speeches of a desperate one, which 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 are as wind?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, you overwhelm the fatherless, And you undermine your friend.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, be pleased to look at me; For I would never lie to your face. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yield now, let there be no injustice! Yes, concede, my righteousness still stands! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is there injustice on my tongue? Cannot my taste discern the unsavory? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 7
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "Is there not a time of hard service for man on earth? Are not his days also like the days of a hired man? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like a servant who earnestly desires the shade, And like a hired man who eagerly looks for his wages, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I have been allotted months of futility, And wearisome nights have been appointed to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I lie down, I say, "When shall I arise, And the night be ended?' For I have had my fill of tossing till dawn. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My flesh is caked with worms and dust, My skin is cracked and breaks out afresh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, And are spent without hope. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, remember that my life is a breath! My eye will never again see good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The eye of him who sees me will see me no more; While your eyes are upon me, I shall no longer be. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As the cloud disappears and vanishes away, So he who goes down to the grave does not come up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall never return to his house, Nor shall his place know him anymore. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore I will not restrain my mouth; I will speak in the anguish of my spirit; I will 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 complain in the bitterness of my soul.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Am I a sea, or a sea serpent, That You set a guard over me?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I say, "My bed will comfort me, My couch will ease my complaint,' 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then You scare me with dreams And terrify me with visions,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So that my soul chooses strangling And death rather than my body. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I loathe my life; I would not live forever. Let me alone, For my days are but a breath. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "What is man, that You should exalt him, That You should set Your heart on him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That You should visit him every morning, And test him every moment? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How long? Will You not look away from me, And let me alone till I swallow my saliva? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have I sinned? What have I done to You, O watcher of men? Why have You set me as Your target, So that I am a burden to myself? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why then do You not pardon my transgression, And take away my iniquity? For now I will lie down in the dust, And You will seek me diligently, But I will no longer be." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 8
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "How long will you speak these things, And the words of your mouth be like a strong 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wind? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Does God subvert judgment? Or does the Almighty pervert justice? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If your sons have sinned against Him, He has cast them away for their transgression. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you would earnestly seek God And make your supplication to the Almighty, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you were pure and upright, Surely now He would awake for you, And prosper your rightful dwelling place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though your beginning was small, Yet your latter end would increase abundantly. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For inquire, please, of the former age, And consider the things discovered by their 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 fathers; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we were born yesterday, and know nothing, Because our days on earth are a shadow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will they not teach you and tell you, And utter words from their heart? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Can the papyrus grow up without a marsh? Can the reeds flourish without water? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 While it is yet green and not cut down, It withers before any other plant.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So are the paths of all who forget God; And the hope of the hypocrite shall perish, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whose confidence shall be cut off, And whose trust is a spider's web. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He leans on his house, but it does not stand. He holds it fast, but it does not endure. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He grows green in the sun, And his branches spread out in his garden. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His roots wrap around the rock heap, And look for a place in the stones. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If he is destroyed from his place, Then it will deny him, saying, "I have not seen you.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Behold, this is the joy of His way, And out of the earth others will grow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, God will not cast away the blameless, Nor will He uphold the evildoers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will yet fill your mouth with laughing, And your lips with rejoicing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who hate you will be clothed with shame, And the dwelling place of the wicked will come to nothing." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 9
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Job answered and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Truly I know it is so, But how can a man be righteous before God? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If one wished to contend with Him, He could not answer Him one time out of a thousand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God is wise in heart and mighty in strength. Who has hardened himself against Him and prospered? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He removes the mountains, and they do not know When He overturns them in His anger; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shakes the earth out of its place, And its pillars tremble; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He commands the sun, and it does not rise; He seals off the stars; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He alone spreads out the heavens, And treads on the waves of the sea; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He made the Bear, Orion, and the Pleiades, And the chambers of the south; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He does great things past finding out, Yes, wonders without number. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If He goes by me, I do not see Him; If He moves past, I do not perceive Him; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If He takes away, who can hinder Him? Who can say to Him, "What are You doing?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God will not withdraw His anger, The allies of the proud lie prostrate beneath Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "How then can I answer Him, And choose my words to reason with Him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For though I were righteous, I could not answer Him; I would beg mercy of my Judge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I called and He answered me, I would not believe that He was listening to my voice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He crushes me with a tempest, And multiplies my wounds without cause. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will not allow me to catch my breath, But fills me with bitterness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If it is a matter of strength, indeed He is strong; And if of justice, who will appoint my day in court? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though I were righteous, my own mouth would condemn me; Though I were blameless, it would prove me perverse. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I am blameless, yet I do not know myself; I despise my life.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is all one thing; Therefore I say, "He destroys the blameless and the wicked.' 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If the scourge slays suddenly, He laughs at the plight of the innocent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The earth is given into the hand of the wicked. He covers the faces of its judges. If it is not He, who else could it be? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now my days are swifter than a runner; They flee away, they see no good. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They pass by like swift ships, Like an eagle swooping on its prey.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I say, "I will forget my complaint, I will put off my sad face and wear a smile,' 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am afraid of all my sufferings; I know that You will not hold me innocent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I am condemned, Why then do I labor in vain? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I wash myself with snow water, And cleanse my hands with soap, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet You will plunge me into the pit, And my own clothes will abhor me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For He is not a man, as I am, That I may answer Him, And that we should go to court together. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nor is there any mediator between us, Who may lay his hand on us both. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Him take His rod away from me, And do not let dread of Him terrify me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I would speak and not fear Him, But it is not so with me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 10
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "My soul loathes my life; I will give free course to my complaint, I will speak in the bitterness of my soul. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will say to God, "Do not condemn me; Show me why You contend with me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Does it seem good to You that You should oppress, That You should despise the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 work of Your hands, And smile on the counsel of the wicked? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do You have eyes of flesh? Or do You see as man sees? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Are Your days like the days of a mortal man? Are Your years like the days of a mighty man, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That You should seek for my iniquity And search out my sin, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Although You know that I am not wicked, And there is no one who can deliver from Your hand? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Your hands have made me and fashioned me, An intricate unity; Yet You would destroy me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remember, I pray, that You have made me like clay. And will You turn me into dust again? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Did You not pour me out like milk, And curdle me like cheese, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Clothe me with skin and flesh, And knit me together with bones and sinews? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have granted me life and favor, And Your care has preserved my spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "And these things You have hidden in Your heart; I know that this was with You: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I sin, then You mark me, And will not acquit me of my iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I am wicked, woe to me; Even if I am righteous, I cannot lift up my head. I am full of disgrace; See my misery! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If my head is exalted, You hunt me like a fierce lion, And again You show Yourself awesome against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You renew Your witnesses against me, And increase Your indignation toward me; Changes and war are ever with me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Why then have You brought me out of the womb? Oh, that I had perished and no eye had seen me! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I would have been as though I had not been. I would have been carried from the womb to the grave. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Are not my days few? Cease! Leave me alone, that I may take a little comfort, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Before I go to the place from which I shall not return, To the land of darkness and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the shadow of death, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A land as dark as darkness itself, As the shadow of death, without any order, Where even the light is like darkness."' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 11
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Should not the multitude of words be answered? And should a man full of talk be vindicated? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Should your empty talk make men hold their peace? And when you mock, should no one rebuke you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you have said, "My doctrine is pure, And I am clean in your eyes.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But oh, that God would speak, And open His lips against you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That He would show you the secrets of wisdom! For they would double your prudence. Know therefore that God exacts from you Less than your iniquity deserves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Can you search out the deep things of God? Can you find out the limits of the Almighty? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are higher than heaven-- what can you do? Deeper than Sheol-- what can you know? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their measure is longer than the earth And broader than the sea.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If He passes by, imprisons, and gathers to judgment, Then who can hinder Him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He knows deceitful men; He sees wickedness also. Will He not then consider it? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For an empty-headed man will be wise, When a wild donkey's colt is born a man. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If you would prepare your heart, And stretch out your hands toward Him; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If iniquity were in your hand, and you put it far away, And would not let wickedness dwell in your tents; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then surely you could lift up your face without spot; Yes, you could be steadfast, and not fear; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because you would forget your misery, And remember it as waters that have passed away, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And your life would be brighter than noonday. Though you were dark, you would be like the morning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And you would be secure, because there is hope; Yes, you would dig around you, and take your rest in safety. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You would also lie down, and no one would make you afraid; Yes, many would court your favor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the eyes of the wicked will fail, And they shall not escape, And their hope--loss of life!" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 12
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Job answered and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "No doubt you are the people, And wisdom will die with you! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you. Indeed, who does not know such things as these? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I am one mocked by his friends, Who called on God, and He answered him, The just and blameless who is ridiculed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A lamp is despised in the thought of one who is at ease; It is made ready for those whose feet slip. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The tents of robbers prosper, And those who provoke God are secure-- In what God provides by His hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But now ask the beasts, and they will teach you; And the birds of the air, and they will tell you; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or speak to the earth, and it will teach you; And the fish of the sea will explain to you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who among all these does not know That the hand of the LORD has done this,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In whose hand is the life of every living thing, And the breath of all mankind?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Does not the ear test words And the mouth taste its food? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wisdom is with aged men, And with length of days, understanding. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "With Him are wisdom and strength, He has counsel and understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If He breaks a thing down, it cannot be rebuilt; If He imprisons a man, there can be no release. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If He withholds the waters, they dry up; If He sends them out, they overwhelm the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With Him are strength and prudence. The deceived and the deceiver are His. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He leads counselors away plundered, And makes fools of the judges.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He loosens the bonds of kings, And binds their waist with a belt.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He leads princes away plundered, And overthrows the mighty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He deprives the trusted ones of speech, And takes away the discernment of the elders. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He pours contempt on princes, And disarms the mighty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He uncovers deep things out of darkness, And brings the shadow of death to light. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He makes nations great, and destroys them; He enlarges nations, and guides them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He takes away the understanding of the chiefs of the people of the earth, And makes them wander in a pathless wilderness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They grope in the dark without light, And He makes them stagger like a drunken man. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 13
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "Behold, my eye has seen all this, My ear has heard and understood it. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What you know, I also know; I am not inferior to you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I would speak to the Almighty, And I desire to reason with God. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But you forgers of lies, You are all worthless physicians.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that you would be silent, And it would be your wisdom!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now hear my reasoning, And heed the pleadings of my lips. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will you speak wickedly for God, And talk deceitfully for Him? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will you show partiality for Him? Will you contend for God? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will it be well when He searches you out? Or can you mock Him as one mocks a man? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will surely rebuke you If you secretly show partiality. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will not His excellence make you afraid, And the dread of Him fall upon you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your platitudes are proverbs of ashes, Your defenses are defenses of clay. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Hold your peace with me, and let me speak, Then let come on me what may! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do I take my flesh in my teeth, And put my life in my hands? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though He slay me, yet will I trust Him. Even so, I will defend my own ways before Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also shall be my salvation, For a hypocrite could not come before Him. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Listen carefully to my speech, And to my declaration with your ears.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 See now, I have prepared my case, I know that I shall be vindicated.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who is he who will contend with me? If now I hold my tongue, I perish.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Only two things do not do to me, Then I will not hide myself from You: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Withdraw Your hand far from me, And let not the dread of You make me afraid. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then call, and I will answer; Or let me speak, then You respond to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How many are my iniquities and sins? Make me know my transgression and my sin. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do You hide Your face, And regard me as Your enemy?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will You frighten a leaf driven to and fro? And will You pursue dry stubble? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You write bitter things against me, And make me inherit the iniquities of my youth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You put my feet in the stocks, And watch closely all my paths. You set a limit for the soles of my feet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Man decays like a rotten thing, Like a garment that is moth-eaten. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 14
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "Man who is born of woman Is of few days and full of trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He comes forth like a flower and fades away; He flees like a shadow and does not continue. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And do You open Your eyes on such a one, And bring me to judgment with Yourself? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? No one!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Since his days are determined, The number of his months is with You; You have 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 appointed his limits, so that he cannot pass.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Look away from him that he may rest, Till like a hired man he finishes his day. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For there is hope for a tree, If it is cut down, that it will sprout again, And that its tender shoots will not cease. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though its root may grow old in the earth, And its stump may die in the ground, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet at the scent of water it will bud And bring forth branches like a plant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But man dies and is laid away; Indeed he breathes his last And where is he? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As water disappears from the sea, And a river becomes parched and dries up, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So man lies down and does not rise. Till the heavens are no more, They will not awake Nor be roused from their sleep. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Oh, that You would hide me in the grave, That You would conceal me until Your wrath is past, That You would appoint me a set time, and remember me! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If a man dies, shall he live again? All the days of my hard service I will wait, Till my change comes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall call, and I will answer You; You shall desire the work of Your hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For now You number my steps, But do not watch over my sin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My transgression is sealed up in a bag, And You cover my iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But as a mountain falls and crumbles away, And as a rock is moved from its place; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As water wears away stones, And as torrents wash away the soil of the earth; So You destroy the hope of man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You prevail forever against him, and he passes on; You change his countenance and send him away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His sons come to honor, and he does not know it; They are brought low, and he does not perceive it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But his flesh will be in pain over it, And his soul will mourn over it." 
\b\fs64 \cf4 15
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Should a wise man answer with empty knowledge, And fill himself with the east wind? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Should he reason with unprofitable talk, Or by speeches with which he can do no good? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, you cast off fear, And restrain prayer before God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For your iniquity teaches your mouth, And you choose the tongue of the crafty. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your own mouth condemns you, and not I; Yes, your own lips testify against you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Are you the first man who was born? Or were you made before the hills?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have you heard the counsel of God? Do you limit wisdom to yourself? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What do you know that we do not know? What do you understand that is not in us? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Both the gray-haired and the aged are among us, Much older than your father. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Are the consolations of God too small for you, And the word spoken gently with you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why does your heart carry you away, And what do your eyes wink at,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That you turn your spirit against God, And let such words go out of your mouth? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "What is man, that he could be pure? And he who is born of a woman, that he could be righteous? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If God puts no trust in His saints, And the heavens are not pure in His sight, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How much less man, who is abominable and filthy, Who drinks iniquity like water! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I will tell you, hear me; What I have seen I will declare, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What wise men have told, Not hiding anything received from their fathers, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To whom alone the land was given, And no alien passed among them: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked man writhes with pain all his days, And the number of years is hidden from the oppressor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Dreadful sounds are in his ears; In prosperity the destroyer comes upon him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He does not believe that he will return from darkness, For a sword is waiting for him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He wanders about for bread, saying, "Where is it?' He knows that a day of darkness is ready at his hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Trouble and anguish make him afraid; They overpower him, like a king ready for battle. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he stretches out his hand against God, And acts defiantly against the Almighty, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Running stubbornly against Him With his strong, embossed shield. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Though he has covered his face with his fatness, And made his waist heavy with fat, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He dwells in desolate cities, In houses which no one inhabits, Which are destined to become ruins. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will not be rich, Nor will his wealth continue, Nor will his possessions overspread the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will not depart from darkness; The flame will dry out his branches, And by the breath of His mouth he will go away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let him not trust in futile things, deceiving himself, For futility will be his reward. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It will be accomplished before his time, And his branch will not be green. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will shake off his unripe grape like a vine, And cast off his blossom like an olive tree. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the company of hypocrites will be barren, And fire will consume the tents of bribery. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They conceive trouble and bring forth futility; Their womb prepares deceit." 
\b\fs64 \cf4 16
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Job answered and said: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I have heard many such things; Miserable comforters are you all!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Shall words of wind have an end? Or what provokes you that you answer? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I also could speak as you do, If your soul were in my soul's place. I could heap up words against you, And shake my head at you; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I would strengthen you with my mouth, And the comfort of my lips would relieve your grief. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Though I speak, my grief is not relieved; And if I remain silent, how am I eased? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But now He has worn me out; You have made desolate all my company. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have shriveled me up, And it is a witness against me; My leanness rises up against me And bears witness to my face. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He tears me in His wrath, and hates me; He gnashes at me with His teeth; My adversary sharpens His gaze on me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They gape at me with their mouth, They strike me reproachfully on the cheek, They gather together against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God has delivered me to the ungodly, And turned me over to the hands of the wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was at ease, but He has shattered me; He also has taken me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces; He has set me up for His target, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His archers surround me. He pierces my heart and does not pity; He pours out my gall on the ground. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He breaks me with wound upon wound; He runs at me like a warrior.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I have sewn sackcloth over my skin, And laid my head in the dust.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My face is flushed from weeping, And on my eyelids is the shadow of death; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Although no violence is in my hands, And my prayer is pure.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "O earth, do not cover my blood, And let my cry have no resting place!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely even now my witness is in heaven, And my evidence is on high.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My friends scorn me; My eyes pour out tears to God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that one might plead for a man with God, As a man pleads for his neighbor! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For when a few years are finished, I shall go the way of no return. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 17
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "My spirit is broken, My days are extinguished, The grave is ready for me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Are not mockers with me? And does not my eye dwell on their provocation? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now put down a pledge for me with Yourself. Who is he who will shake hands with me? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You have hidden their heart from understanding; Therefore You will not exalt them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who speaks flattery to his friends, Even the eyes of his children will fail.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But He has made me a byword of the people, And I have become one in whose 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 face men spit. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My eye has also grown dim because of sorrow, And all my members are like shadows. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Upright men are astonished at this, And the innocent stirs himself up against the hypocrite. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet the righteous will hold to his way, And he who has clean hands will be stronger and stronger. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But please, come back again, all of you, For I shall not find one wise man among you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My days are past, My purposes are broken off, Even the thoughts of my heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They change the night into day; "The light is near,' they say, in the face of darkness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I wait for the grave as my house, If I make my bed in the darkness, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I say to corruption, "You are my father,' And to the worm, "You are my mother and my sister,' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Where then is my hope? As for my hope, who can see it?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will they go down to the gates of Sheol? Shall we have rest together in the dust?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 18
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "How long till you put an end to words? Gain understanding, and afterward we will speak. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why are we counted as beasts, And regarded as stupid in your sight?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You who tear yourself in anger, Shall the earth be forsaken for you? Or shall the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 rock be removed from its place? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "The light of the wicked indeed goes out, And the flame of his fire does not shine. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The light is dark in his tent, And his lamp beside him is put out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The steps of his strength are shortened, And his own counsel casts him down. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he is cast into a net by his own feet, And he walks into a snare. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The net takes him by the heel, And a snare lays hold of him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A noose is hidden for him on the ground, And a trap for him in the road. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Terrors frighten him on every side, And drive him to his feet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His strength is starved, And destruction is ready at his side. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It devours patches of his skin; The firstborn of death devours his limbs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He is uprooted from the shelter of his tent, And they parade him before the king of terrors. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They dwell in his tent who are none of his; Brimstone is scattered on his dwelling. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His roots are dried out below, And his branch withers above. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The memory of him perishes from the earth, And he has no name among the renowned. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He is driven from light into darkness, And chased out of the world.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has neither son nor posterity among his people, Nor any remaining in his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 dwellings.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those in the west are astonished at his day, As those in the east are frightened. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely such are the dwellings of the wicked, And this is the place of him who does not know God." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 19
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Job answered and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "How long will you torment my soul, And break me in pieces with words? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 These ten times you have reproached me; You are not ashamed that you have wronged me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if indeed I have erred, My error remains with me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If indeed you exalt yourselves against me, And plead my disgrace against me, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Know then that God has wronged me, And has surrounded me with His net. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If I cry out concerning wrong, I am not heard. If I cry aloud, there is no justice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has fenced up my way, so that I cannot pass; And He has set darkness in my paths. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has stripped me of my glory, And taken the crown from my head.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He breaks me down on every side, And I am gone; My hope He has uprooted like a 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 tree. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has also kindled His wrath against me, And He counts me as one of His enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His troops come together And build up their road against me; They encamp all around my tent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "He has removed my brothers far from me, And my acquaintances are completely estranged from me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My relatives have failed, And my close friends have forgotten me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who dwell in my house, and my maidservants, Count me as a stranger; I am an alien in their sight. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I call my servant, but he gives no answer; I beg him with my mouth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My breath is offensive to my wife, And I am repulsive to the children of my own 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 body. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even young children despise me; I arise, and they speak against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All my close friends abhor me, And those whom I love have turned against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My bone clings to my skin and to my flesh, And I have escaped by the skin of my teeth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Have pity on me, have pity on me, O you my friends, For the hand of God has struck me! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do you persecute me as God does, And are not satisfied with my flesh? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Oh, that my words were written! Oh, that they were inscribed in a book! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That they were engraved on a rock With an iron pen and lead, forever! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I know that my Redeemer lives, And He shall stand at last on the earth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And after my skin is destroyed, this I know, That in my flesh I shall see God, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whom I shall see for myself, And my eyes shall behold, and not another. How my heart yearns within me! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you should say, "How shall we persecute him?'-- Since the root of the matter is found in me, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be afraid of the sword for yourselves; For wrath brings the punishment of the sword, That you may know there is a judgment." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 20
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Zophar the Naamathite answered and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore my anxious thoughts make me answer, Because of the turmoil within me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have heard the rebuke that reproaches me, And the spirit of my understanding causes me to answer. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Do you not know this of old, Since man was placed on earth,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That the triumphing of the wicked is short, And the joy of the hypocrite is but for a 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 moment? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though his haughtiness mounts up to the heavens, And his head reaches to the clouds, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet he will perish forever like his own refuse; Those who have seen him will say, "Where is he?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will fly away like a dream, and not be found; Yes, he will be chased away like a vision of the night. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The eye that saw him will see him no more, Nor will his place behold him anymore. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His children will seek the favor of the poor, And his hands will restore his wealth. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His bones are full of his youthful vigor, But it will lie down with him in the dust. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Though evil is sweet in his mouth, And he hides it under his tongue, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though he spares it and does not forsake it, But still keeps it in his mouth, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet his food in his stomach turns sour; It becomes cobra venom within him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He swallows down riches And vomits them up again; God casts them out of his belly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will suck the poison of cobras; The viper's tongue will slay him. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will not see the streams, The rivers flowing with honey and cream. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will restore that for which he labored, And will not swallow it down; From the proceeds of business He will get no enjoyment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he has oppressed and forsaken the poor, He has violently seized a house which he did not build. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Because he knows no quietness in his heart, He will not save anything he desires. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nothing is left for him to eat; Therefore his well-being will not last.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In his self-sufficiency he will be in distress; Every hand of misery will come against 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When he is about to fill his stomach, God will cast on him the fury of His wrath, And will rain it on him while he is eating. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will flee from the iron weapon; A bronze bow will pierce him through.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is drawn, and comes out of the body; Yes, the glittering point comes out of his gall. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Terrors come upon him; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Total darkness is reserved for his treasures. An unfanned fire will consume him; It shall go ill with him who is left in his tent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heavens will reveal his iniquity, And the earth will rise up against him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The increase of his house will depart, And his goods will flow away in the day of His 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wrath. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This is the portion from God for a wicked man, The heritage appointed to him by God." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 21
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Job answered and said: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Listen carefully to my speech, And let this be your consolation.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bear with me that I may speak, And after I have spoken, keep mocking. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "As for me, is my complaint against man? And if it were, why should I not be impatient? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Look at me and be astonished; Put your hand over your mouth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even when I remember I am terrified, And trembling takes hold of my flesh. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do the wicked live and become old, Yes, become mighty in power? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their descendants are established with them in their sight, And their offspring before their eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their houses are safe from fear, Neither is the rod of God upon them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their bull breeds without failure; Their cow calves without miscarriage. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They send forth their little ones like a flock, And their children dance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They sing to the tambourine and harp, And rejoice to the sound of the flute. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They spend their days in wealth, And in a moment go down to the grave. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet they say to God, "Depart from us, For we do not desire the knowledge of Your ways. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who is the Almighty, that we should serve Him? And what profit do we have if we pray to Him?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed their prosperity is not in their hand; The counsel of the wicked is far from me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "How often is the lamp of the wicked put out? How often does their destruction 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 come upon them, The sorrows God distributes in His anger?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are like straw before the wind, And like chaff that a storm carries away. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They say, "God lays up one's iniquity for his children'; Let Him recompense him, that he may know it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let his eyes see his destruction, And let him drink of the wrath of the Almighty. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For what does he care about his household after him, When the number of his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 months is cut in half?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Can anyone teach God knowledge, Since He judges those on high?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 One dies in his full strength, Being wholly at ease and secure;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His pails are full of milk, And the marrow of his bones is moist.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Another man dies in the bitterness of his soul, Never having eaten with pleasure. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They lie down alike in the dust, And worms cover them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Look, I know your thoughts, And the schemes with which you would wrong me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you say, "Where is the house of the prince? And where is the tent, The dwelling place of the wicked?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have you not asked those who travel the road? And do you not know their signs? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the wicked are reserved for the day of doom; They shall be brought out on the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 day of wrath. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who condemns his way to his face? And who repays him for what he has done? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet he shall be brought to the grave, And a vigil kept over the tomb. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The clods of the valley shall be sweet to him; Everyone shall follow him, As countless have gone before him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How then can you comfort me with empty words, Since falsehood remains in your answers?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 22
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Can a man be profitable to God, Though he who is wise may be profitable to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 himself? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is it any pleasure to the Almighty that you are righteous? Or is it gain to Him that you make your ways blameless? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Is it because of your fear of Him that He corrects you, And enters into judgment with you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is not your wickedness great, And your iniquity without end?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you have taken pledges from your brother for no reason, And stripped the naked 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of their clothing. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have not given the weary water to drink, And you have withheld bread from the hungry. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the mighty man possessed the land, And the honorable man dwelt in it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have sent widows away empty, And the strength of the fatherless was crushed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore snares are all around you, And sudden fear troubles you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or darkness so that you cannot see; And an abundance of water covers you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Is not God in the height of heaven? And see the highest stars, how lofty they are! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And you say, "What does God know? Can He judge through the deep darkness? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Thick clouds cover Him, so that He cannot see, And He walks above the circle of heaven.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will you keep to the old way Which wicked men have trod,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who were cut down before their time, Whose foundations were swept away by a 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 flood?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They said to God, "Depart from us! What can the Almighty do to them?' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet He filled their houses with good things; But the counsel of the wicked is far from me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "The righteous see it and are glad, And the innocent laugh at them: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Surely our adversaries are cut down, And the fire consumes their remnant.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now acquaint yourself with Him, and be at peace; Thereby good will come to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Receive, please, instruction from His mouth, And lay up His words in your heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you return to the Almighty, you will be built up; You will remove iniquity far from your tents. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then you will lay your gold in the dust, And the gold of Ophir among the stones of the brooks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, the Almighty will be your gold And your precious silver; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For then you will have your delight in the Almighty, And lift up your face to God. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You will make your prayer to Him, He will hear you, And you will pay your vows. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You will also declare a thing, And it will be established for you; So light will shine on your ways. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they cast you down, and you say, "Exaltation will come!' Then He will save the humble person. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will even deliver one who is not innocent; Yes, he will be delivered by the purity of your hands." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 23
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Job answered and said: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Even today my complaint is bitter; My hand is listless because of my groaning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that I knew where I might find Him, That I might come to His seat! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I would present my case before Him, And fill my mouth with arguments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I would know the words which He would answer me, And understand what He would say to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Would He contend with me in His great power? No! But He would take note of me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There the upright could reason with Him, And I would be delivered forever from my 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Judge.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Look, I go forward, but He is not there, And backward, but I cannot perceive Him; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When He works on the left hand, I cannot behold Him; When He turns to the right hand, I cannot see Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But He knows the way that I take; When He has tested me, I shall come forth as gold. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My foot has held fast to His steps; I have kept His way and not turned aside. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have not departed from the commandment of His lips; I have treasured the words of His mouth More than my necessary food. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But He is unique, and who can make Him change? And whatever His soul desires, that He does. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He performs what is appointed for me, And many such things are with Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I am terrified at His presence; When I consider this, I am afraid of Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For God made my heart weak, And the Almighty terrifies me; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because I was not cut off from the presence of darkness, And He did not hide deep darkness from my face. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 24
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "Since times are not hidden from the Almighty, Why do those who know Him see not His days? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Some remove landmarks; They seize flocks violently and feed on them; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They drive away the donkey of the fatherless; They take the widow's ox as a pledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They push the needy off the road; All the poor of the land are forced to hide. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed, like wild donkeys in the desert, They go out to their work, searching for food. The wilderness yields food for them and for their children. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They gather their fodder in the field And glean in the vineyard of the wicked. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They spend the night naked, without clothing, And have no covering in the cold. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are wet with the showers of the mountains, And huddle around the rock for want of shelter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Some snatch the fatherless from the breast, And take a pledge from the poor. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They cause the poor to go naked, without clothing; And they take away the sheaves 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 from the hungry.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They press out oil within their walls, And tread winepresses, yet suffer thirst. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The dying groan in the city, And the souls of the wounded cry out; Yet God does not charge them with wrong. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "There are those who rebel against the light; They do not know its ways Nor abide in its paths. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The murderer rises with the light; He kills the poor and needy; And in the night he is like a thief. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The eye of the adulterer waits for the twilight, Saying, "No eye will see me'; And he disguises his face. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the dark they break into houses Which they marked for themselves in the daytime; They do not know the light. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the morning is the same to them as the shadow of death; If someone recognizes them, They are in the terrors of the shadow of death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "They should be swift on the face of the waters, Their portion should be cursed in the earth, So that no one would turn into the way of their vineyards. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As drought and heat consume the snow waters, So the grave consumes those who have sinned. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The womb should forget him, The worm should feed sweetly on him; He should be remembered no more, And wickedness should be broken like a tree. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he preys on the barren who do not bear, And does no good for the widow. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But God draws the mighty away with His power; He rises up, but no man is sure of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 life.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He gives them security, and they rely on it; Yet His eyes are on their ways. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are exalted for a little while, Then they are gone. They are brought low; They are taken out of the way like all others; They dry out like the heads of grain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now if it is not so, who will prove me a liar, And make my speech worth nothing?" 
\b\fs64 \cf4 25
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Bildad the Shuhite answered and said: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Dominion and fear belong to Him; He makes peace in His high places. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is there any number to His armies? Upon whom does His light not rise? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How then can man be righteous before God? Or how can he be pure who is born of a woman? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If even the moon does not shine, And the stars are not pure in His sight, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How much less man, who is a maggot, And a son of man, who is a worm?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 26
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 But Job answered and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "How have you helped him who is without power? How have you saved the arm that 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 has no strength? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How have you counseled one who has no wisdom? And how have you declared sound advice to many? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To whom have you uttered words? And whose spirit came from you?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "The dead tremble, Those under the waters and those inhabiting them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sheol is naked before Him, And Destruction has no covering.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He stretches out the north over empty space; He hangs the earth on nothing. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He binds up the water in His thick clouds, Yet the clouds are not broken under it. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He covers the face of His throne, And spreads His cloud over it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He drew a circular horizon on the face of the waters, At the boundary of light and darkness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The pillars of heaven tremble, And are astonished at His rebuke.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He stirs up the sea with His power, And by His understanding He breaks up the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 storm.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By His Spirit He adorned the heavens; His hand pierced the fleeing serpent. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed these are the mere edges of His ways, And how small a whisper we hear of Him! But the thunder of His power who can understand?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 27
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Moreover Job continued his discourse, and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "As God lives, who has taken away my justice, And the Almighty, who has made my 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 soul bitter, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As long as my breath is in me, And the breath of God in my nostrils, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My lips will not speak wickedness, Nor my tongue utter deceit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Far be it from me That I should say you are right; Till I die I will not put away my integrity from me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My righteousness I hold fast, and will not let it go; My heart shall not reproach me as long as I live. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "May my enemy be like the wicked, And he who rises up against me like the unrighteous. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For what is the hope of the hypocrite, Though he may gain much, If God takes away his life? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will God hear his cry When trouble comes upon him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will he delight himself in the Almighty? Will he always call on God? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I will teach you about the hand of God; What is with the Almighty I will not conceal. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely all of you have seen it; Why then do you behave with complete nonsense? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "This is the portion of a wicked man with God, And the heritage of oppressors, received from the Almighty: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If his children are multiplied, it is for the sword; And his offspring shall not be satisfied with bread. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who survive him shall be buried in death, And their widows shall not weep, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though he heaps up silver like dust, And piles up clothing like clay-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He may pile it up, but the just will wear it, And the innocent will divide the silver. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He builds his house like a moth, Like a booth which a watchman makes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The rich man will lie down, But not be gathered up; He opens his eyes, And he is no more. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Terrors overtake him like a flood; A tempest steals him away in the night.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The east wind carries him away, and he is gone; It sweeps him out of his place. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It hurls against him and does not spare; He flees desperately from its power. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Men shall clap their hands at him, And shall hiss him out of his place. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 28
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "Surely there is a mine for silver, And a place where gold is refined. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Iron is taken from the earth, And copper is smelted from ore. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Man puts an end to darkness, And searches every recess For ore in the darkness and the shadow of death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He breaks open a shaft away from people; In places forgotten by feet They hang far away from men; They swing to and fro. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for the earth, from it comes bread, But underneath it is turned up as by fire; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Its stones are the source of sapphires, And it contains gold dust.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That path no bird knows, Nor has the falcon's eye seen it.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The proud lions have not trodden it, Nor has the fierce lion passed over it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He puts his hand on the flint; He overturns the mountains at the roots.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He cuts out channels in the rocks, And his eye sees every precious thing. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He dams up the streams from trickling; What is hidden he brings forth to light. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But where can wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Man does not know its value, Nor is it found in the land of the living.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The deep says, "It is not in me'; And the sea says, "It is not with me.'\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It cannot be purchased for gold, Nor can silver be weighed for its price. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It cannot be valued in the gold of Ophir, In precious onyx or sapphire.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Neither gold nor crystal can equal it, Nor can it be exchanged for jewelry of fine gold. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 No mention shall be made of coral or quartz, For the price of wisdom is above rubies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The topaz of Ethiopia cannot equal it, Nor can it be valued in pure gold. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "From where then does wisdom come? And where is the place of understanding? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is hidden from the eyes of all living, And concealed from the birds of the air. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Destruction and Death say, "We have heard a report about it with our ears.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God understands its way, And He knows its place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He looks to the ends of the earth, And sees under the whole heavens, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To establish a weight for the wind, And apportion the waters by measure. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When He made a law for the rain, And a path for the thunderbolt, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then He saw wisdom and declared it; He prepared it, indeed, He searched it out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And to man He said, "Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom, And to depart from evil is understanding."' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 29
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Job further continued his discourse, and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Oh, that I were as in months past, As in the days when God watched over me; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When His lamp shone upon my head, And when by His light I walked through darkness; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Just as I was in the days of my prime, When the friendly counsel of God was over my tent; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the Almighty was yet with me, When my children were around me;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When my steps were bathed with cream, And the rock poured out rivers of oil for 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 me! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "When I went out to the gate by the city, When I took my seat in the open square, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The young men saw me and hid, And the aged arose and stood; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The princes refrained from talking, And put their hand on their mouth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The voice of nobles was hushed, And their tongue stuck to the roof of their mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the ear heard, then it blessed me, And when the eye saw, then it approved me; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because I delivered the poor who cried out, The fatherless and the one who had no helper. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The blessing of a perishing man came upon me, And I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I put on righteousness, and it clothed me; My justice was like a robe and a turban. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was eyes to the blind, And I was feet to the lame.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was a father to the poor, And I searched out the case that I did not know.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I broke the fangs of the wicked, And plucked the victim from his teeth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Then I said, "I shall die in my nest, And multiply my days as the sand.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My root is spread out to the waters, And the dew lies all night on my branch. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My glory is fresh within me, And my bow is renewed in my hand.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Men listened to me and waited, And kept silence for my counsel.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 After my words they did not speak again, And my speech settled on them as dew. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They waited for me as for the rain, And they opened their mouth wide as for the spring rain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I mocked at them, they did not believe it, And the light of my countenance they did not cast down. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I chose the way for them, and sat as chief; So I dwelt as a king in the army, As one who comforts mourners. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 30
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "But now they mock at me, men younger than I, Whose fathers I disdained to put with the dogs of my flock. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed, what profit is the strength of their hands to me? Their vigor has perished. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are gaunt from want and famine, Fleeing late to the wilderness, desolate and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 waste, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who pluck mallow by the bushes, And broom tree roots for their food. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They were driven out from among men, They shouted at them as at a thief. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They had to live in the clefts of the valleys, In caves of the earth and the rocks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Among the bushes they brayed, Under the nettles they nestled. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They were sons of fools, Yes, sons of vile men; They were scourged from the land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "And now I am their taunting song; Yes, I am their byword. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They abhor me, they keep far from me; They do not hesitate to spit in my face. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because He has loosed my bowstring and afflicted me, They have cast off restraint before me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At my right hand the rabble arises; They push away my feet, And they raise against me their ways of destruction. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They break up my path, They promote my calamity; They have no helper. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They come as broad breakers; Under the ruinous storm they roll along. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Terrors are turned upon me; They pursue my honor as the wind, And my prosperity has passed like a cloud. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "And now my soul is poured out because of my plight; The days of affliction take hold of me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My bones are pierced in me at night, And my gnawing pains take no rest. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By great force my garment is disfigured; It binds me about as the collar of my coat. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has cast me into the mire, And I have become like dust and ashes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I cry out to You, but You do not answer me; I stand up, and You regard me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You have become cruel to me; With the strength of Your hand You oppose me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You lift me up to the wind and cause me to ride on it; You spoil my success. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I know that You will bring me to death, And to the house appointed for all living. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Surely He would not stretch out His hand against a heap of ruins, If they cry out when He destroys it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have I not wept for him who was in trouble? Has not my soul grieved for the poor? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But when I looked for good, evil came to me; And when I waited for light, then came 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 darkness.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My heart is in turmoil and cannot rest; Days of affliction confront me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I go about mourning, but not in the sun; I stand up in the assembly and cry out for help. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am a brother of jackals, And a companion of ostriches.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My skin grows black and falls from me; My bones burn with fever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My harp is turned to mourning, And my flute to the voice of those who weep. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 31
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "I have made a covenant with my eyes; Why then should I look upon a young 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 woman? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For what is the allotment of God from above, And the inheritance of the Almighty from on high? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is it not destruction for the wicked, And disaster for the workers of iniquity? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Does He not see my ways, And count all my steps?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If I have walked with falsehood, Or if my foot has hastened to deceit,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let me be weighed on honest scales, That God may know my integrity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If my step has turned from the way, Or my heart walked after my eyes, Or if any spot adheres to my hands, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then let me sow, and another eat; Yes, let my harvest be rooted out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If my heart has been enticed by a woman, Or if I have lurked at my neighbor's door, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then let my wife grind for another, And let others bow down over her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For that would be wickedness; Yes, it would be iniquity deserving of judgment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For that would be a fire that consumes to destruction, And would root out all my increase. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If I have despised the cause of my male or female servant When they complained against me, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What then shall I do when God rises up? When He punishes, how shall I answer Him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Did not He who made me in the womb make them? Did not the same One fashion us in the womb? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If I have kept the poor from their desire, Or caused the eyes of the widow to fail, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Or eaten my morsel by myself, So that the fatherless could not eat of it\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 (But from my youth I reared him as a father, And from my mother's womb I guided 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the widow );\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I have seen anyone perish for lack of clothing, Or any poor man without covering; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If his heart has not blessed me, And if he was not warmed with the fleece of my sheep; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I have raised my hand against the fatherless, When I saw I had help in the gate; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then let my arm fall from my shoulder, Let my arm be torn from the socket. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For destruction from God is a terror to me, And because of His magnificence I cannot endure. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If I have made gold my hope, Or said to fine gold, "You are my confidence';\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I have rejoiced because my wealth was great, And because my hand had gained 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 much; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I have observed the sun when it shines, Or the moon moving in brightness, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So that my heart has been secretly enticed, And my mouth has kissed my hand; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This also would be an iniquity deserving of judgment, For I would have denied God who is above. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If I have rejoiced at the destruction of him who hated me, Or lifted myself up when evil found him 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 (Indeed I have not allowed my mouth to sin By asking for a curse on his soul);\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If the men of my tent have not said, "Who is there that has not been satisfied with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 his meat?' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 (But no sojourner had to lodge in the street, For I have opened my doors to the traveler ); 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I have covered my transgressions as Adam, By hiding my iniquity in my bosom, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because I feared the great multitude, And dreaded the contempt of families, So that I kept silence And did not go out of the door-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that I had one to hear me! Here is my mark. Oh, that the Almighty would answer me, That my Prosecutor had written a book! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely I would carry it on my shoulder, And bind it on me like a crown; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I would declare to Him the number of my steps; Like a prince I would approach Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If my land cries out against me, And its furrows weep together; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I have eaten its fruit without money, Or caused its owners to lose their lives; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then let thistles grow instead of wheat, And weeds instead of barley." The words of Job are ended. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 32
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 So these three men ceased answering Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the wrath of Elihu, the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram, was aroused against Job; his wrath was aroused because he justified himself rather than God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also against his three friends his wrath was aroused, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now because they were years older than he, Elihu had waited to speak to Job. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wrath was aroused. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Elihu, the son of Barachel the Buzite, answered and said: "I am young in years, and you are very old; Therefore I was afraid, And dared not declare my opinion to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I said, "Age should speak, And multitude of years should teach wisdom.'\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But there is a spirit in man, And the breath of the Almighty gives him understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Great men are not always wise, Nor do the aged always understand justice. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore I say, "Listen to me, I also will declare my opinion.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed I waited for your words, I listened to your reasonings, while you searched out what to say. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I paid close attention to you; And surely not one of you convinced Job, Or answered his words-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest you say, "We have found wisdom'; God will vanquish him, not man.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now he has not directed his words against me; So I will not answer him with your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 words.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "They are dismayed and answer no more; Words escape them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And I have waited, because they did not speak, Because they stood still and answered no more. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I also will answer my part, I too will declare my opinion.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I am full of words; The spirit within me compels me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed my belly is like wine that has no vent; It is ready to burst like new wineskins. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will speak, that I may find relief; I must open my lips and answer.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let me not, I pray, show partiality to anyone; Nor let me flatter any man.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I do not know how to flatter, Else my Maker would soon take me away. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 33
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "But please, Job, hear my speech, And listen to all my words. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now, I open my mouth; My tongue speaks in my mouth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My words come from my upright heart; My lips utter pure knowledge.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The Spirit of God has made me, And the breath of the Almighty gives me life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you can answer me, Set your words in order before me; Take your stand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Truly I am as your spokesman before God; I also have been formed out of clay. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely no fear of me will terrify you, Nor will my hand be heavy on you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Surely you have spoken in my hearing, And I have heard the sound of your words, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I am pure, without transgression; I am innocent, and there is no iniquity in me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet He finds occasions against me, He counts me as His enemy; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He puts my feet in the stocks, He watches all my paths.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Look, in this you are not righteous. I will answer you, For God is greater than man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do you contend with Him? For He does not give an accounting of any of His words. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For God may speak in one way, or in another, Yet man does not perceive it.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In a dream, in a vision of the night, When deep sleep falls upon men, While 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 slumbering on their beds, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then He opens the ears of men, And seals their instruction. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In order to turn man from his deed, And conceal pride from man, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He keeps back his soul from the Pit, And his life from perishing by the sword. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Man is also chastened with pain on his bed, And with strong pain in many of his bones, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So that his life abhors bread, And his soul succulent food.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His flesh wastes away from sight, And his bones stick out which once were not 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 seen.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, his soul draws near the Pit, And his life to the executioners. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If there is a messenger for him, A mediator, one among a thousand, To show man His uprightness, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then He is gracious to him, and says, "Deliver him from going down to the Pit; I have found a ransom'; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His flesh shall be young like a child's, He shall return to the days of his youth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall pray to God, and He will delight in him, He shall see His face with joy, For 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 He restores to man His righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then he looks at men and says, "I have sinned, and perverted what was right, And it did not profit me.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will redeem his soul from going down to the Pit, And his life shall see the light. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Behold, God works all these things, Twice, in fact, three times with a man,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To bring back his soul from the Pit, That he may be enlightened with the light of life. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Give ear, Job, listen to me; Hold your peace, and I will speak. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you have anything to say, answer me; Speak, for I desire to justify you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If not, listen to me; Hold your peace, and I will teach you wisdom." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 34
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Elihu further answered and said: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Hear my words, you wise men; Give ear to me, you who have knowledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the ear tests words As the palate tastes food. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let us choose justice for ourselves; Let us know among ourselves what is good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For Job has said, "I am righteous, But God has taken away my justice; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Should I lie concerning my right? My wound is incurable, though I am without transgression.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What man is like Job, Who drinks scorn like water, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who goes in company with the workers of iniquity, And walks with wicked men? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he has said, "It profits a man nothing That he should delight in God.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Therefore listen to me, you men of understanding: Far be it from God to do wickedness, And from the Almighty to commit iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He repays man according to his work, And makes man to find a reward according to his way. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely God will never do wickedly, Nor will the Almighty pervert justice.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who gave Him charge over the earth? Or who appointed Him over the whole 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 world? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If He should set His heart on it, If He should gather to Himself His Spirit and His breath, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All flesh would perish together, And man would return to dust. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If you have understanding, hear this; Listen to the sound of my words: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Should one who hates justice govern? Will you condemn Him who is most just? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is it fitting to say to a king, "You are worthless,' And to nobles, "You are wicked'? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet He is not partial to princes, Nor does He regard the rich more than the poor; For they are all the work of His hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In a moment they die, in the middle of the night; The people are shaken and pass away; The mighty are taken away without a hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For His eyes are on the ways of man, And He sees all his steps.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is no darkness nor shadow of death Where the workers of iniquity may hide 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 themselves.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He need not further consider a man, That he should go before God in judgment. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He breaks in pieces mighty men without inquiry, And sets others in their place. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore He knows their works; He overthrows them in the night, And they are crushed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He strikes them as wicked men In the open sight of others,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because they turned back from Him, And would not consider any of His ways, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So that they caused the cry of the poor to come to Him; For He hears the cry of the afflicted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When He gives quietness, who then can make trouble? And when He hides His face, who then can see Him, Whether it is against a nation or a man alone?-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That the hypocrite should not reign, Lest the people be ensnared. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For has anyone said to God, "I have borne chastening; I will offend no more; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Teach me what I do not see; If I have done iniquity, I will do no more'? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Should He repay it according to your terms, Just because you disavow it? You must choose, and not I; Therefore speak what you know. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Men of understanding say to me, Wise men who listen to me: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Job speaks without knowledge, His words are without wisdom.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that Job were tried to the utmost, Because his answers are like those of wicked men! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he adds rebellion to his sin; He claps his hands among us, And multiplies his words against God." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 35
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Moreover Elihu answered and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Do you think this is right? Do you say, "My righteousness is more than God's'? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For you say, "What advantage will it be to You? What profit shall I have, more than if I had sinned?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I will answer you, And your companions with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Look to the heavens and see; And behold the clouds-- They are higher than you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you sin, what do you accomplish against Him? Or, if your transgressions are 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 multiplied, what do you do to Him? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you are righteous, what do you give Him? Or what does He receive from your hand? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your wickedness affects a man such as you, And your righteousness a son of man. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Because of the multitude of oppressions they cry out; They cry out for help because 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of the arm of the mighty.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But no one says, "Where is God my Maker, Who gives songs in the night, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who teaches us more than the beasts of the earth, And makes us wiser than the birds of heaven?' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There they cry out, but He does not answer, Because of the pride of evil men. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely God will not listen to empty talk, Nor will the Almighty regard it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Although you say you do not see Him, Yet justice is before Him, and you must wait for Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And now, because He has not punished in His anger, Nor taken much notice of folly, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore Job opens his mouth in vain; He multiplies words without knowledge." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 36
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Elihu also proceeded and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Bear with me a little, and I will show you That there are yet words to speak on 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 God's behalf.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will fetch my knowledge from afar; I will ascribe righteousness to my Maker. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For truly my words are not false; One who is perfect in knowledge is with you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Behold, God is mighty, but despises no one; He is mighty in strength of understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He does not preserve the life of the wicked, But gives justice to the oppressed.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He does not withdraw His eyes from the righteous; But they are on the throne with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 kings, For He has seated them forever, And they are exalted. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if they are bound in fetters, Held in the cords of affliction, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then He tells them their work and their transgressions-- That they have acted defiantly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also opens their ear to instruction, And commands that they turn from iniquity. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If they obey and serve Him, They shall spend their days in prosperity, And their 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 years in pleasures. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if they do not obey, They shall perish by the sword, And they shall die without knowledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But the hypocrites in heart store up wrath; They do not cry for help when He binds them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They die in youth, And their life ends among the perverted persons.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He delivers the poor in their affliction, And opens their ears in oppression. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Indeed He would have brought you out of dire distress, Into a broad place where there is no restraint; And what is set on your table would be full of richness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But you are filled with the judgment due the wicked; Judgment and justice take hold of you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because there is wrath, beware lest He take you away with one blow; For a large ransom would not help you avoid it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will your riches, Or all the mighty forces, Keep you from distress?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not desire the night, When people are cut off in their place.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Take heed, do not turn to iniquity, For you have chosen this rather than affliction. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Behold, God is exalted by His power; Who teaches like Him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who has assigned Him His way, Or who has said, "You have done wrong'? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Remember to magnify His work, Of which men have sung. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Everyone has seen it; Man looks on it from afar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Behold, God is great, and we do not know Him; Nor can the number of His years be discovered. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He draws up drops of water, Which distill as rain from the mist, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Which the clouds drop down And pour abundantly on man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed, can anyone understand the spreading of clouds, The thunder from His canopy? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Look, He scatters His light upon it, And covers the depths of the sea. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For by these He judges the peoples; He gives food in abundance. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He covers His hands with lightning, And commands it to strike.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His thunder declares it, The cattle also, concerning the rising storm. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 37
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "At this also my heart trembles, And leaps from its place.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear attentively the thunder of His voice, And the rumbling that comes from His 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 mouth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sends it forth under the whole heaven, His lightning to the ends of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 After it a voice roars; He thunders with His majestic voice, And He does not restrain them when His voice is heard. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God thunders marvelously with His voice; He does great things which we cannot comprehend. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He says to the snow, "Fall on the earth'; Likewise to the gentle rain and the heavy rain of His strength. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He seals the hand of every man, That all men may know His work. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The beasts go into dens, And remain in their lairs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From the chamber of the south comes the whirlwind, And cold from the scattering winds of the north. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By the breath of God ice is given, And the broad waters are frozen.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also with moisture He saturates the thick clouds; He scatters His bright clouds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they swirl about, being turned by His guidance, That they may do whatever He commands them On the face of the whole earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He causes it to come, Whether for correction, Or for His land, Or for mercy. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Listen to this, O Job; Stand still and consider the wondrous works of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you know when God dispatches them, And causes the light of His cloud to shine? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you know how the clouds are balanced, Those wondrous works of Him who is perfect in knowledge? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why are your garments hot, When He quiets the earth by the south wind? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With Him, have you spread out the skies, Strong as a cast metal mirror? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Teach us what we should say to Him, For we can prepare nothing because of the darkness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Should He be told that I wish to speak? If a man were to speak, surely he would be swallowed up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even now men cannot look at the light when it is bright in the skies, When the wind has passed and cleared them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He comes from the north as golden splendor; With God is awesome majesty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for the Almighty, we cannot find Him; He is excellent in power, In judgment and abundant justice; He does not oppress. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore men fear Him; He shows no partiality to any who are wise of heart." 
\b\fs64 \cf4 38
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Who is this who darkens counsel By words without knowledge?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now prepare yourself like a man; I will question you, and you shall answer Me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? Tell Me, if you have understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who determined its measurements? Surely you know! Or who stretched the line upon it? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To what were its foundations fastened? Or who laid its cornerstone, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the morning stars sang together, And all the sons of God shouted for joy? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Or who shut in the sea with doors, When it burst forth and issued from the womb; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I made the clouds its garment, And thick darkness its swaddling band; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I fixed My limit for it, And set bars and doors; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I said, "This far you may come, but no farther, And here your proud waves must stop!' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Have you commanded the morning since your days began, And caused the dawn to know its place, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That it might take hold of the ends of the earth, And the wicked be shaken out of it? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It takes on form like clay under a seal, And stands out like a garment.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From the wicked their light is withheld, And the upraised arm is broken. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Have you entered the springs of the sea? Or have you walked in search of the depths? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have the gates of death been revealed to you? Or have you seen the doors of the shadow of death? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have you comprehended the breadth of the earth? Tell Me, if you know all this. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Where is the way to the dwelling of light? And darkness, where is its place, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That you may take it to its territory, That you may know the paths to its home? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you know it, because you were born then, Or because the number of your days is great? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Have you entered the treasury of snow, Or have you seen the treasury of hail, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Which I have reserved for the time of trouble, For the day of battle and war? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By what way is light diffused, Or the east wind scattered over the earth? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Who has divided a channel for the overflowing water, Or a path for the thunderbolt, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To cause it to rain on a land where there is no one, A wilderness in which there is no man; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To satisfy the desolate waste, And cause to spring forth the growth of tender grass? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Has the rain a father? Or who has begotten the drops of dew?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From whose womb comes the ice? And the frost of heaven, who gives it birth? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The waters harden like stone, And the surface of the deep is frozen. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Can you bind the cluster of the Pleiades, Or loose the belt of Orion?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Can you bring out Mazzaroth in its season? Or can you guide the Great Bear with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 its cubs? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you know the ordinances of the heavens? Can you set their dominion over the earth? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Can you lift up your voice to the clouds, That an abundance of water may cover you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Can you send out lightnings, that they may go, And say to you, "Here we are!'? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who has put wisdom in the mind? Or who has given understanding to the heart? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can pour out the bottles of heaven, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the dust hardens in clumps, And the clods cling together? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Can you hunt the prey for the lion, Or satisfy the appetite of the young lions, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they crouch in their dens, Or lurk in their lairs to lie in wait? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who provides food for the raven, When its young ones cry to God, And wander about for lack of food? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 39
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "Do you know the time when the wild mountain goats bear young? Or can you mark when the deer gives birth? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Can you number the months that they fulfill? Or do you know the time when they bear young? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They bow down, They bring forth their young, They deliver their offspring.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their young ones are healthy, They grow strong with grain; They depart and do not 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 return to them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Who set the wild donkey free? Who loosed the bonds of the onager,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whose home I have made the wilderness, And the barren land his dwelling?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He scorns the tumult of the city; He does not heed the shouts of the driver.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The range of the mountains is his pasture, And he searches after every green thing. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Will the wild ox be willing to serve you? Will he bed by your manger? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Can you bind the wild ox in the furrow with ropes? Or will he plow the valleys behind you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will you trust him because his strength is great? Or will you leave your labor to him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will you trust him to bring home your grain, And gather it to your threshing floor? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "The wings of the ostrich wave proudly, But are her wings and pinions like the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 kindly stork's? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For she leaves her eggs on the ground, And warms them in the dust; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She forgets that a foot may crush them, Or that a wild beast may break them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She treats her young harshly, as though they were not hers; Her labor is in vain, without concern, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because God deprived her of wisdom, And did not endow her with understanding. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When she lifts herself on high, She scorns the horse and its rider.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Have you given the horse strength? Have you clothed his neck with thunder? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Can you frighten him like a locust? His majestic snorting strikes terror. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He paws in the valley, and rejoices in his strength; He gallops into the clash of arms. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He mocks at fear, and is not frightened; Nor does he turn back from the sword. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The quiver rattles against him, The glittering spear and javelin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He devours the distance with fierceness and rage; Nor does he come to a halt because the trumpet has sounded. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At the blast of the trumpet he says, "Aha!' He smells the battle from afar, The thunder of captains and shouting. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Does the hawk fly by your wisdom, And spread its wings toward the south? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Does the eagle mount up at your command, And make its nest on high? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 On the rock it dwells and resides, On the crag of the rock and the stronghold. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From there it spies out the prey; Its eyes observe from afar.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Its young ones suck up blood; And where the slain are, there it is." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 40
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Moreover the LORD answered Job, and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Shall the one who contends with the Almighty correct Him? He who rebukes God, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 let him answer it." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Job answered the LORD and said: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Behold, I am vile; What shall I answer You? I lay my hand over my mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Once I have spoken, but I will not answer; Yes, twice, but I will proceed no further." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now prepare yourself like a man; I will question you, and you shall answer Me: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Would you indeed annul My judgment? Would you condemn Me that you may be justified? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have you an arm like God? Or can you thunder with a voice like His?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then adorn yourself with majesty and splendor, And array yourself with glory and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 beauty.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Disperse the rage of your wrath; Look on everyone who is proud, and humble him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Look on everyone who is proud, and bring him low; Tread down the wicked in their place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hide them in the dust together, Bind their faces in hidden darkness.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I will also confess to you That your own right hand can save you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Look now at the behemoth, which I made along with you; He eats grass like an ox. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 See now, his strength is in his hips, And his power is in his stomach muscles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He moves his tail like a cedar; The sinews of his thighs are tightly knit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His bones are like beams of bronze, His ribs like bars of iron. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He is the first of the ways of God; Only He who made him can bring near His sword. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely the mountains yield food for him, And all the beasts of the field play there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He lies under the lotus trees, In a covert of reeds and marsh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lotus trees cover him with their shade; The willows by the brook surround him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed the river may rage, Yet he is not disturbed; He is confident, though the Jordan gushes into his mouth, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though he takes it in his eyes, Or one pierces his nose with a snare.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 41
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 "Can you draw out Leviathan with a hook, Or snare his tongue with a line which 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 you lower? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Can you put a reed through his nose, Or pierce his jaw with a hook? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will he make many supplications to you? Will he speak softly to you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will he make a covenant with you? Will you take him as a servant forever? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will you play with him as with a bird, Or will you leash him for your maidens? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will your companions make a banquet of him? Will they apportion him among the merchants? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Can you fill his skin with harpoons, Or his head with fishing spears? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lay your hand on him; Remember the battle-- Never do it again! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed, any hope of overcoming him is false; Shall one not be overwhelmed at the sight of him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 No one is so fierce that he would dare stir him up. Who then is able to stand against Me? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who has preceded Me, that I should pay him? Everything under heaven is Mine. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I will not conceal his limbs, His mighty power, or his graceful proportions. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who can remove his outer coat? Who can approach him with a double bridle? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who can open the doors of his face, With his terrible teeth all around? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His rows of scales are his pride, Shut up tightly as with a seal; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 One is so near another That no air can come between them; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are joined one to another, They stick together and cannot be parted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His sneezings flash forth light, And his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Out of his mouth go burning lights; Sparks of fire shoot out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Smoke goes out of his nostrils, As from a boiling pot and burning rushes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His breath kindles coals, And a flame goes out of his mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Strength dwells in his neck, And sorrow dances before him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The folds of his flesh are joined together; They are firm on him and cannot be moved. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His heart is as hard as stone, Even as hard as the lower millstone.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When he raises himself up, the mighty are afraid; Because of his crashings they are 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 beside themselves.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though the sword reaches him, it cannot avail; Nor does spear, dart, or javelin. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He regards iron as straw, And bronze as rotten wood.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The arrow cannot make him flee; Slingstones become like stubble to him. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Darts are regarded as straw; He laughs at the threat of javelins.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His undersides are like sharp potsherds; He spreads pointed marks in the mire. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He makes the deep boil like a pot; He makes the sea like a pot of ointment. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He leaves a shining wake behind him; One would think the deep had white hair. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 On earth there is nothing like him, Which is made without fear.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He beholds every high thing; He is king over all the children of pride." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 42
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Then Job answered the LORD and said:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I know that You can do everything, And that no purpose of Yours can be withheld 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 from You. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You asked, "Who is this who hides counsel without knowledge?' Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, Things too wonderful for me, which I did not know. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Listen, please, and let me speak; You said, "I will question you, and you shall answer Me.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I have heard of You by the hearing of the ear, But now my eye sees You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I abhor myself, And repent in dust and ashes." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And so it was, after the LORD had spoken these words to Job, that the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, "My wrath is aroused against you and your two friends, for you have not spoken of Me what is right, as My servant Job has. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, take for yourselves seven bulls and seven rams, go to My servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and My servant Job shall pray for you. For I will accept him, lest I deal with you according to your folly; because you have not spoken of Me what is right, as My servant Job has." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went and did as the LORD commanded them; for the LORD had accepted Job. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD restored Job's losses when he prayed for his friends. Indeed the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then all his brothers, all his sisters, and all those who had been his acquaintances before, came to him and ate food with him in his house; and they consoled him and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 comforted him for all the adversity that the LORD had brought upon him. Each one gave him a piece of silver and each a ring of gold. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now the LORD blessed the latter days of Job more than his beginning; for he had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, one thousand yoke of oxen, and one thousand female donkeys. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also had seven sons and three daughters.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And he called the name of the first Jemimah, the name of the second Keziah, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the name of the third Keren-Happuch. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In all the land were found no women so beautiful as the daughters of Job; and their father gave them an inheritance among their brothers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 After this Job lived one hundred and forty years, and saw his children and grandchildren for four generations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So Job died, old and full of days. 
\f0\fs24 \
}