{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red190\green0\blue4;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c39608\c80000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c80000\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Philemon 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus, and Timothy our brother, To Philemon our beloved friend and fellow laborer, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 to the beloved Apphia, Archippus our fellow soldier, and to the church in your house: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I thank my God, making mention of you always in my prayers, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 hearing of your love and faith which you have toward the Lord Jesus and toward all the saints, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 that the sharing of your faith may become effective by the acknowledgment of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we have great joy and consolation in your love, because the hearts of the saints have been refreshed by you, brother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore, though I might be very bold in Christ to command you what is fitting,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 yet for love's sake I rather appeal to you--being such a one as Paul, the aged, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ-- 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I appeal to you for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten while in my chains, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 who once was unprofitable to you, but now is profitable to you and to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am sending him back. You therefore receive him, that is, my own heart, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 whom I wished to keep with me, that on your behalf he might minister to me in my chains for the gospel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But without your consent I wanted to do nothing, that your good deed might not be by compulsion, as it were, but voluntary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For perhaps he departed for a while for this purpose, that you might receive him forever, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 no longer as a slave but more than a slave--a beloved brother, especially to me but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If then you count me as a partner, receive him as you would me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But if he has wronged you or owes anything, put that on my account. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I, Paul, am writing with my own hand. I will repay--not to mention to you that you owe me even your own self besides. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, brother, let me have joy from you in the Lord; refresh my heart in the Lord. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Having confidence in your obedience, I write to you, knowing that you will do even 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 more than I say. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But, meanwhile, also prepare a guest room for me, for I trust that through your prayers I shall be granted to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 as do Mark, Aristarchus, Demas, Luke, my fellow laborers. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen. 
\f0\fs24 \
}