{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;\red190\green0\blue4;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c39608\c80000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c80000\c0\c0;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Proverbs 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To know wisdom and instruction, To perceive the words of understanding, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To receive the instruction of wisdom, Justice, judgment, and equity; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To give prudence to the simple, To the young man knowledge and discretion-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wise man will hear and increase learning, And a man of understanding will attain wise counsel, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To understand a proverb and an enigma, The words of the wise and their riddles. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge, But fools despise wisdom and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 instruction. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, hear the instruction of your father, And do not forsake the law of your mother; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they will be a graceful ornament on your head, And chains about your neck. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, if sinners entice you, Do not consent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If they say, "Come with us, Let us lie in wait to shed blood; Let us lurk secretly for the innocent without cause; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let us swallow them alive like Sheol, And whole, like those who go down to the Pit; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We shall find all kinds of precious possessions, We shall fill our houses with spoil; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Cast in your lot among us, Let us all have one purse"--\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, do not walk in the way with them, Keep your foot from their path; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For their feet run to evil, And they make haste to shed blood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely, in vain the net is spread In the sight of any bird;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But they lie in wait for their own blood, They lurk secretly for their own lives. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain; It takes away the life of its owners. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wisdom calls aloud outside; She raises her voice in the open squares.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She cries out in the chief concourses, At the openings of the gates in the city She 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 speaks her words: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "How long, you simple ones, will you love simplicity? For scorners delight in their scorning, And fools hate knowledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Turn at my rebuke; Surely I will pour out my spirit on you; I will make my words known to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because I have called and you refused, I have stretched out my hand and no one regarded, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because you disdained all my counsel, And would have none of my rebuke, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your terror comes, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When your terror comes like a storm, And your destruction comes like a whirlwind, When distress and anguish come upon you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Then they will call on me, but I will not answer; They will seek me diligently, but they will not find me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because they hated knowledge And did not choose the fear of the LORD, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They would have none of my counsel And despised my every rebuke. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore they shall eat the fruit of their own way, And be filled to the full with their own fancies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the turning away of the simple will slay them, And the complacency of fools will destroy them; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But whoever listens to me will dwell safely, And will be secure, without fear of evil." 
\b\fs64 \cf4 2
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 My son, if you receive my words, And treasure my commands within you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So that you incline your ear to wisdom, And apply your heart to understanding; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, if you cry out for discernment, And lift up your voice for understanding, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you seek her as silver, And search for her as for hidden treasures; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then you will understand the fear of the LORD, And find the knowledge of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD gives wisdom; From His mouth come knowledge and understanding; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He stores up sound wisdom for the upright; He is a shield to those who walk uprightly; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He guards the paths of justice, And preserves the way of His saints. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then you will understand righteousness and justice, Equity and every good path. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When wisdom enters your heart, And knowledge is pleasant to your soul, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Discretion will preserve you; Understanding will keep you, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To deliver you from the way of evil, From the man who speaks perverse things, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From those who leave the paths of uprightness To walk in the ways of darkness; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who rejoice in doing evil, And delight in the perversity of the wicked; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whose ways are crooked, And who are devious in their paths; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To deliver you from the immoral woman, From the seductress who flatters with her words, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who forsakes the companion of her youth, And forgets the covenant of her God. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For her house leads down to death, And her paths to the dead; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 None who go to her return, Nor do they regain the paths of life-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So you may walk in the way of goodness, And keep to the paths of righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the upright will dwell in the land, And the blameless will remain in it; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the wicked will be cut off from the earth, And the unfaithful will be uprooted from it. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 3
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 My son, do not forget my law, But let your heart keep my commands; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For length of days and long life And peace they will add to you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let not mercy and truth forsake you; Bind them around your neck, Write them on the tablet of your heart, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And so find favor and high esteem In the sight of God and man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Trust in the LORD with all your heart, And lean not on your own understanding; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In all your ways acknowledge Him, And He shall direct your paths. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not be wise in your own eyes; Fear the LORD and depart from evil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It will be health to your flesh, And strength to your bones. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Honor the LORD with your possessions, And with the firstfruits of all your increase; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So your barns will be filled with plenty, And your vats will overflow with new wine. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, do not despise the chastening of the LORD, Nor detest His correction; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For whom the LORD loves He corrects, Just as a father the son in whom he delights. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Happy is the man who finds wisdom, And the man who gains understanding; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For her proceeds are better than the profits of silver, And her gain than fine gold. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She is more precious than rubies, And all the things you may desire cannot compare with her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Length of days is in her right hand, In her left hand riches and honor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Her ways are ways of pleasantness, And all her paths are peace. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She is a tree of life to those who take hold of her, And happy are all who retain her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD by wisdom founded the earth; By understanding He established the heavens; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By His knowledge the depths were broken up, And clouds drop down the dew. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, let them not depart from your eyes-- Keep sound wisdom and discretion; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So they will be life to your soul And grace to your neck. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then you will walk safely in your way, And your foot will not stumble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When you lie down, you will not be afraid; Yes, you will lie down and your sleep will be sweet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not be afraid of sudden terror, Nor of trouble from the wicked when it comes; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD will be your confidence, And will keep your foot from being caught. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, When it is in the power of your hand to do so. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not say to your neighbor, "Go, and come back, And tomorrow I will give it," When you have it with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not devise evil against your neighbor, For he dwells by you for safety's sake. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not strive with a man without cause, If he has done you no harm.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not envy the oppressor, And choose none of his ways; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the perverse person is an abomination to the LORD, But His secret counsel is with the upright. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The curse of the LORD is on the house of the wicked, But He blesses the home of the just. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely He scorns the scornful, But gives grace to the humble. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wise shall inherit glory, But shame shall be the legacy of fools. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 4
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Hear, my children, the instruction of a father, And give attention to know understanding; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I give you good doctrine: Do not forsake my law.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I was my father's son, Tender and the only one in the sight of my mother, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also taught me, and said to me: "Let your heart retain my words; Keep my commands, and live. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Get wisdom! Get understanding! Do not forget, nor turn away from the words of my mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not forsake her, and she will preserve you; Love her, and she will keep you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wisdom is the principal thing; Therefore get wisdom. And in all your getting, get 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Exalt her, and she will promote you; She will bring you honor, when you embrace her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She will place on your head an ornament of grace; A crown of glory she will deliver to you." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear, my son, and receive my sayings, And the years of your life will be many. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have taught you in the way of wisdom; I have led you in right paths. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When you walk, your steps will not be hindered, And when you run, you will not stumble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Take firm hold of instruction, do not let go; Keep her, for she is your life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not enter the path of the wicked, And do not walk in the way of evil. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Avoid it, do not travel on it; Turn away from it and pass on. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they do not sleep unless they have done evil; And their sleep is taken away unless they make someone fall. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they eat the bread of wickedness, And drink the wine of violence.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the path of the just is like the shining sun, That shines ever brighter unto the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 perfect day. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The way of the wicked is like darkness; They do not know what makes them stumble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, give attention to my words; Incline your ear to my sayings.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not let them depart from your eyes; Keep them in the midst of your heart; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they are life to those who find them, And health to all their flesh.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Keep your heart with all diligence, For out of it spring the issues of life.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Put away from you a deceitful mouth, And put perverse lips far from you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let your eyes look straight ahead, And your eyelids look right before you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Ponder the path of your feet, And let all your ways be established.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not turn to the right or the left; Remove your foot from evil. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 5
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 My son, pay attention to my wisdom; Lend your ear to my understanding, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That you may preserve discretion, And your lips may keep knowledge.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the lips of an immoral woman drip honey, And her mouth is smoother than oil; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But in the end she is bitter as wormwood, Sharp as a two-edged sword.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Her feet go down to death, Her steps lay hold of hell. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest you ponder her path of life-- Her ways are unstable; You do not know them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore hear me now, my children, And do not depart from the words of my mouth. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remove your way far from her, And do not go near the door of her house,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest you give your honor to others, And your years to the cruel one; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest aliens be filled with your wealth, And your labors go to the house of a foreigner; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And you mourn at last, When your flesh and your body are consumed, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And say: "How I have hated instruction, And my heart despised correction! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, Nor inclined my ear to those who instructed me! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was on the verge of total ruin, In the midst of the assembly and congregation." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Drink water from your own cistern, And running water from your own well. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Should your fountains be dispersed abroad, Streams of water in the streets? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be only your own, And not for strangers with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let your fountain be blessed, And rejoice with the wife of your youth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As a loving deer and a graceful doe, Let her breasts satisfy you at all times; And 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 always be enraptured with her love. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For why should you, my son, be enraptured by an immoral woman, And be embraced in the arms of a seductress? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the ways of man are before the eyes of the LORD, And He ponders all his paths. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His own iniquities entrap the wicked man, And he is caught in the cords of his sin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall die for lack of instruction, And in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 6
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 My son, if you become surety for your friend, If you have shaken hands in pledge for a stranger, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are snared by the words of your mouth; You are taken by the words of your mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So do this, my son, and deliver yourself; For you have come into the hand of your friend: Go and humble yourself; Plead with your friend. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give no sleep to your eyes, Nor slumber to your eyelids.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver yourself like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, And like a bird from the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 hand of the fowler. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Go to the ant, you sluggard! Consider her ways and be wise, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Which, having no captain, Overseer or ruler, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Provides her supplies in the summer, And gathers her food in the harvest. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How long will you slumber, O sluggard? When will you rise from your sleep? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A little sleep, a little slumber, A little folding of the hands to sleep-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So shall your poverty come on you like a prowler, And your need like an armed man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A worthless person, a wicked man, Walks with a perverse mouth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He winks with his eyes, He shuffles his feet, He points with his fingers; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Perversity is in his heart, He devises evil continually, He sows discord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore his calamity shall come suddenly; Suddenly he shall be broken without remedy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 These six things the LORD hates, Yes, seven are an abomination to Him: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A proud look, A lying tongue, Hands that shed innocent blood,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A heart that devises wicked plans, Feet that are swift in running to evil, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A false witness who speaks lies, And one who sows discord among brethren. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, keep your father's command, And do not forsake the law of your mother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bind them continually upon your heart; Tie them around your neck. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When you roam, they will lead you; When you sleep, they will keep you; And when you awake, they will speak with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the commandment is a lamp, And the law a light; Reproofs of instruction are the way of life, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To keep you from the evil woman, From the flattering tongue of a seductress. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not lust after her beauty in your heart, Nor let her allure you with her eyelids. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For by means of a harlot A man is reduced to a crust of bread; And an adulteress will prey upon his precious life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Can a man take fire to his bosom, And his clothes not be burned? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Can one walk on hot coals, And his feet not be seared? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So is he who goes in to his neighbor's wife; Whoever touches her shall not be innocent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 People do not despise a thief If he steals to satisfy himself when he is starving. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet when he is found, he must restore sevenfold; He may have to give up all the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 substance of his house. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever commits adultery with a woman lacks understanding; He who does so destroys his own soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wounds and dishonor he will get, And his reproach will not be wiped away.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For jealousy is a husband's fury; Therefore he will not spare in the day of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 vengeance.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will accept no recompense, Nor will he be appeased though you give many gifts. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 7
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 My son, keep my words, And treasure my commands within you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Keep my commands and live, And my law as the apple of your eye. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bind them on your fingers; Write them on the tablet of your heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Say to wisdom, "You are my sister," And call understanding your nearest kin, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That they may keep you from the immoral woman, From the seductress who flatters with her words. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For at the window of my house I looked through my lattice,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And saw among the simple, I perceived among the youths, A young man devoid of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 understanding,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Passing along the street near her corner; And he took the path to her house\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the twilight, in the evening, In the black and dark night.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And there a woman met him, With the attire of a harlot, and a crafty heart.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She was loud and rebellious, Her feet would not stay at home.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At times she was outside, at times in the open square, Lurking at every corner. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So she caught him and kissed him; With an impudent face she said to him:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I have peace offerings with me; Today I have paid my vows.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I came out to meet you, Diligently to seek your face, And I have found you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have spread my bed with tapestry, Colored coverings of Egyptian linen.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have perfumed my bed With myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Come, let us take our fill of love until morning; Let us delight ourselves with love. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For my husband is not at home; He has gone on a long journey; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has taken a bag of money with him, And will come home on the appointed day." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With her enticing speech she caused him to yield, With her flattering lips she 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 seduced him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Immediately he went after her, as an ox goes to the slaughter, Or as a fool to the correction of the stocks, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Till an arrow struck his liver. As a bird hastens to the snare, He did not know it would cost his life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, listen to me, my children; Pay attention to the words of my mouth: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not let your heart turn aside to her ways, Do not stray into her paths; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For she has cast down many wounded, And all who were slain by her were strong men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Her house is the way to hell, Descending to the chambers of death. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 8
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Does not wisdom cry out, And understanding lift up her voice? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She takes her stand on the top of the high hill, Beside the way, where the paths meet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She cries out by the gates, at the entry of the city, At the entrance of the doors: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "To you, O men, I call, And my voice is to the sons of men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O you simple ones, understand prudence, And you fools, be of an understanding heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Listen, for I will speak of excellent things, And from the opening of my lips will come right things; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For my mouth will speak truth; Wickedness is an abomination to my lips. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All the words of my mouth are with righteousness; Nothing crooked or perverse is in them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are all plain to him who understands, And right to those who find knowledge. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Receive my instruction, and not silver, And knowledge rather than choice gold; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For wisdom is better than rubies, And all the things one may desire cannot be compared with her. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, And find out knowledge and discretion.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fear of the LORD is to hate evil; Pride and arrogance and the evil way And the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 perverse mouth I hate. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom; I am understanding, I have strength. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By me kings reign, And rulers decree justice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By me princes rule, and nobles, All the judges of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I love those who love me, And those who seek me diligently will find me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Riches and honor are with me, Enduring riches and righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My fruit is better than gold, yes, than fine gold, And my revenue than choice silver. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I traverse the way of righteousness, In the midst of the paths of justice, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That I may cause those who love me to inherit wealth, That I may fill their treasuries. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "The LORD possessed me at the beginning of His way, Before His works of old. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have been established from everlasting, From the beginning, before there was ever an earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When there were no depths I was brought forth, When there were no fountains abounding with water. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Before the mountains were settled, Before the hills, I was brought forth;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 While as yet He had not made the earth or the fields, Or the primal dust of the world. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When He prepared the heavens, I was there, When He drew a circle on the face of the deep, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When He established the clouds above, When He strengthened the fountains of the deep, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When He assigned to the sea its limit, So that the waters would not transgress His command, When He marked out the foundations of the earth, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I was beside Him as a master craftsman; And I was daily His delight, Rejoicing always before Him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rejoicing in His inhabited world, And my delight was with the sons of men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now therefore, listen to me, my children, For blessed are those who keep my ways. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear instruction and be wise, And do not disdain it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is the man who listens to me, Watching daily at my gates, Waiting at the posts of my doors. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For whoever finds me finds life, And obtains favor from the LORD;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he who sins against me wrongs his own soul; All those who hate me love 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 death."\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 9
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Wisdom has built her house, She has hewn out her seven pillars; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She has slaughtered her meat, She has mixed her wine, She has also furnished her table. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She has sent out her maidens, She cries out from the highest places of the city, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Whoever is simple, let him turn in here!" As for him who lacks understanding, she 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 says to him,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Come, eat of my bread And drink of the wine I have mixed. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Forsake foolishness and live, And go in the way of understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "He who corrects a scoffer gets shame for himself, And he who rebukes a wicked man only harms himself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not correct a scoffer, lest he hate you; Rebuke a wise man, and he will love you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be still wiser; Teach a just man, and he 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 will increase in learning. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom, And the knowledge of the Holy One is understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For by me your days will be multiplied, And years of life will be added to you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you are wise, you are wise for yourself, And if you scoff, you will bear it alone." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A foolish woman is clamorous; She is simple, and knows nothing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For she sits at the door of her house, On a seat by the highest places of the city, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To call to those who pass by, Who go straight on their way: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Whoever is simple, let him turn in here"; And as for him who lacks understanding, she says to him, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Stolen water is sweet, And bread eaten in secret is pleasant."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But he does not know that the dead are there, That her guests are in the depths of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 hell. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 10
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 The proverbs of Solomon: A wise son makes a glad father, But a foolish son is the grief of his mother. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, But righteousness delivers from death.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will not allow the righteous soul to famish, But He casts away the desire 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of the wicked.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who has a slack hand becomes poor, But the hand of the diligent makes rich. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who gathers in summer is a wise son; He who sleeps in harvest is a son who causes shame. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessings are on the head of the righteous, But violence covers the mouth of the wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The memory of the righteous is blessed, But the name of the wicked will rot. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wise in heart will receive commands, But a prating fool will fall. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who walks with integrity walks securely, But he who perverts his ways will become known. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who winks with the eye causes trouble, But a prating fool will fall.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The mouth of the righteous is a well of life, But violence covers the mouth of the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wicked.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hatred stirs up strife, But love covers all sins. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wisdom is found on the lips of him who has understanding, But a rod is for the back of him who is devoid of understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wise people store up knowledge, But the mouth of the foolish is near destruction. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The rich man's wealth is his strong city; The destruction of the poor is their poverty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The labor of the righteous leads to life, The wages of the wicked to sin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who keeps instruction is in the way of life, But he who refuses correction goes astray. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever hides hatred has lying lips, And whoever spreads slander is a fool.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the multitude of words sin is not lacking, But he who restrains his lips is wise. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The tongue of the righteous is choice silver; The heart of the wicked is worth little. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lips of the righteous feed many, But fools die for lack of wisdom.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The blessing of the LORD makes one rich, And He adds no sorrow with it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To do evil is like sport to a fool, But a man of understanding has wisdom.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fear of the wicked will come upon him, And the desire of the righteous will be 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 granted. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the whirlwind passes by, the wicked is no more, But the righteous has an everlasting foundation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes, So is the lazy man to those who send him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fear of the LORD prolongs days, But the years of the wicked will be shortened. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The hope of the righteous will be gladness, But the expectation of the wicked will 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 perish. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The way of the LORD is strength for the upright, But destruction will come to the workers of iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous will never be removed, But the wicked will not inhabit the earth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom, But the perverse tongue will be cut 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 out. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable, But the mouth of the wicked what is perverse. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 11
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Dishonest scales are an abomination to the LORD, But a just weight is His delight. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When pride comes, then comes shame; But with the humble is wisdom.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The integrity of the upright will guide them, But the perversity of the unfaithful will 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 destroy them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, But righteousness delivers from death. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteousness of the blameless will direct his way aright, But the wicked will fall by his own wickedness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteousness of the upright will deliver them, But the unfaithful will be caught by their lust. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When a wicked man dies, his expectation will perish, And the hope of the unjust perishes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous is delivered from trouble, And it comes to the wicked instead.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The hypocrite with his mouth destroys his neighbor, But through knowledge the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 righteous will be delivered. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices; And when the wicked perish, there is jubilation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted, But it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who is devoid of wisdom despises his neighbor, But a man of understanding holds his peace. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A talebearer reveals secrets, But he who is of a faithful spirit conceals a matter. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Where there is no counsel, the people fall; But in the multitude of counselors there 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 is safety. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who is surety for a stranger will suffer, But one who hates being surety is secure. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A gracious woman retains honor, But ruthless men retain riches. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The merciful man does good for his own soul, But he who is cruel troubles his own flesh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked man does deceptive work, But he who sows righteousness will have a sure reward. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As righteousness leads to life, So he who pursues evil pursues it to his own death. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who are of a perverse heart are an abomination to the LORD, But the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 blameless in their ways are His delight. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though they join forces, the wicked will not go unpunished; But the posterity of the righteous will be delivered. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As a ring of gold in a swine's snout, So is a lovely woman who lacks discretion. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The desire of the righteous is only good, But the expectation of the wicked is wrath. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is one who scatters, yet increases more; And there is one who withholds more than is right, But it leads to poverty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The generous soul will be made rich, And he who waters will also be watered himself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The people will curse him who withholds grain, But blessing will be on the head of him who sells it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who earnestly seeks good finds favor, But trouble will come to him who seeks evil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who trusts in his riches will fall, But the righteous will flourish like foliage.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who troubles his own house will inherit the wind, And the fool will be servant to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the wise of heart.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, And he who wins souls is wise. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If the righteous will be recompensed on the earth, How much more the ungodly and the sinner. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 12
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Whoever loves instruction loves knowledge, But he who hates correction is stupid. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A good man obtains favor from the LORD, But a man of wicked intentions He will condemn. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man is not established by wickedness, But the root of the righteous cannot be moved. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, But she who causes shame is like rottenness in his bones. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The thoughts of the righteous are right, But the counsels of the wicked are deceitful. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The words of the wicked are, "Lie in wait for blood," But the mouth of the upright will deliver them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked are overthrown and are no more, But the house of the righteous will stand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man will be commended according to his wisdom, But he who is of a perverse heart will be despised. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Better is the one who is slighted but has a servant, Than he who honors himself but lacks bread. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A righteous man regards the life of his animal, But the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who tills his land will be satisfied with bread, But he who follows frivolity is devoid of understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked covet the catch of evil men, But the root of the righteous yields fruit. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked is ensnared by the transgression of his lips, But the righteous will come 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 through trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man will be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth, And the recompense of a man's hands will be rendered to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, But he who heeds counsel is wise. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A fool's wrath is known at once, But a prudent man covers shame. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who speaks truth declares righteousness, But a false witness, deceit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is one who speaks like the piercings of a sword, But the tongue of the wise promotes health. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The truthful lip shall be established forever, But a lying tongue is but for a moment. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil, But counselors of peace have joy. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 No grave trouble will overtake the righteous, But the wicked shall be filled with evil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lying lips are an abomination to the LORD, But those who deal truthfully are His delight. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A prudent man conceals knowledge, But the heart of fools proclaims foolishness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The hand of the diligent will rule, But the lazy man will be put to forced labor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Anxiety in the heart of man causes depression, But a good word makes it glad. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous should choose his friends carefully, For the way of the wicked leads them astray. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lazy man does not roast what he took in hunting, But diligence is man's precious possession. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the way of righteousness is life, And in its pathway there is no death.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 13
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 A wise son heeds his father's instruction, But a scoffer does not listen to rebuke. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man shall eat well by the fruit of his mouth, But the soul of the unfaithful feeds on violence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who guards his mouth preserves his life, But he who opens wide his lips shall have destruction. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The soul of a lazy man desires, and has nothing; But the soul of the diligent shall be made rich. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A righteous man hates lying, But a wicked man is loathsome and comes to shame. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Righteousness guards him whose way is blameless, But wickedness overthrows the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 sinner. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is one who makes himself rich, yet has nothing; And one who makes himself poor, yet has great riches. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The ransom of a man's life is his riches, But the poor does not hear rebuke. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The light of the righteous rejoices, But the lamp of the wicked will be put out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By pride comes nothing but strife, But with the well-advised is wisdom.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wealth gained by dishonesty will be diminished, But he who gathers by labor will 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 increase.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hope deferred makes the heart sick, But when the desire comes, it is a tree of life. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who despises the word will be destroyed, But he who fears the commandment will be rewarded. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The law of the wise is a fountain of life, To turn one away from the snares of death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Good understanding gains favor, But the way of the unfaithful is hard. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Every prudent man acts with knowledge, But a fool lays open his folly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wicked messenger falls into trouble, But a faithful ambassador brings health. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Poverty and shame will come to him who disdains correction, But he who regards a rebuke will be honored. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A desire accomplished is sweet to the soul, But it is an abomination to fools to depart from evil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who walks with wise men will be wise, But the companion of fools will be destroyed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Evil pursues sinners, But to the righteous, good shall be repaid.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children, But the wealth of the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 sinner is stored up for the righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Much food is in the fallow ground of the poor, And for lack of justice there is waste. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who spares his rod hates his son, But he who loves him disciplines him promptly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous eats to the satisfying of his soul, But the stomach of the wicked shall be in want. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 14
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 The wise woman builds her house, But the foolish pulls it down with her hands. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who walks in his uprightness fears the LORD, But he who is perverse in his ways despises Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the mouth of a fool is a rod of pride, But the lips of the wise will preserve them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Where no oxen are, the trough is clean; But much increase comes by the strength of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 an ox.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A faithful witness does not lie, But a false witness will utter lies. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A scoffer seeks wisdom and does not find it, But knowledge is easy to him who understands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Go from the presence of a foolish man, When you do not perceive in him the lips of knowledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way, But the folly of fools is deceit. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Fools mock at sin, But among the upright there is favor.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heart knows its own bitterness, And a stranger does not share its joy.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The house of the wicked will be overthrown, But the tent of the upright will flourish. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is a way that seems right to a man, But its end is the way of death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even in laughter the heart may sorrow, And the end of mirth may be grief.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The backslider in heart will be filled with his own ways, But a good man will be 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 satisfied from above.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The simple believes every word, But the prudent considers well his steps.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wise man fears and departs from evil, But a fool rages and is self-confident. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A quick-tempered man acts foolishly, And a man of wicked intentions is hated. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The simple inherit folly, But the prudent are crowned with knowledge.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The evil will bow before the good, And the wicked at the gates of the righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The poor man is hated even by his own neighbor, But the rich has many friends. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who despises his neighbor sins; But he who has mercy on the poor, happy is he. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do they not go astray who devise evil? But mercy and truth belong to those who devise good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In all labor there is profit, But idle chatter leads only to poverty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The crown of the wise is their riches, But the foolishness of fools is folly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A true witness delivers souls, But a deceitful witness speaks lies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the fear of the LORD there is strong confidence, And His children will have a place of refuge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, To turn one away from the snares of death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In a multitude of people is a king's honor, But in the lack of people is the downfall of a prince. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who is slow to wrath has great understanding, But he who is impulsive exalts folly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A sound heart is life to the body, But envy is rottenness to the bones.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who oppresses the poor reproaches his Maker, But he who honors Him has 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 mercy on the needy. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked is banished in his wickedness, But the righteous has a refuge in his death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wisdom rests in the heart of him who has understanding, But what is in the heart of fools is made known. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Righteousness exalts a nation, But sin is a reproach to any people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The king's favor is toward a wise servant, But his wrath is against him who causes shame. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 15
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 A soft answer turns away wrath, But a harsh word stirs up anger.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The tongue of the wise uses knowledge rightly, But the mouth of fools pours forth 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 foolishness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The eyes of the LORD are in every place, Keeping watch on the evil and the good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wholesome tongue is a tree of life, But perverseness in it breaks the spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A fool despises his father's instruction, But he who receives correction is prudent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the house of the righteous there is much treasure, But in the revenue of the wicked is trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lips of the wise disperse knowledge, But the heart of the fool does not do so. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD, But the prayer of the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 upright is His delight. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The way of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD, But He loves him who follows righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Harsh discipline is for him who forsakes the way, And he who hates correction will die. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hell and Destruction are before the LORD; So how much more the hearts of the sons of men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A scoffer does not love one who corrects him, Nor will he go to the wise.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A merry heart makes a cheerful countenance, But by sorrow of the heart the spirit is 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 broken. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heart of him who has understanding seeks knowledge, But the mouth of fools feeds on foolishness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All the days of the afflicted are evil, But he who is of a merry heart has a continual feast. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Better is a little with the fear of the LORD, Than great treasure with trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, Than a fatted calf with hatred.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wrathful man stirs up strife, But he who is slow to anger allays contention. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The way of the lazy man is like a hedge of thorns, But the way of the upright is a highway. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wise son makes a father glad, But a foolish man despises his mother.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Folly is joy to him who is destitute of discernment, But a man of understanding 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 walks uprightly. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Without counsel, plans go awry, But in the multitude of counselors they are established. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man has joy by the answer of his mouth, And a word spoken in due season, how good it is! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The way of life winds upward for the wise, That he may turn away from hell below. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will destroy the house of the proud, But He will establish the boundary of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the widow. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD, But the words of the pure are pleasant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who is greedy for gain troubles his own house, But he who hates bribes will live. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heart of the righteous studies how to answer, But the mouth of the wicked 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 pours forth evil. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is far from the wicked, But He hears the prayer of the righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The light of the eyes rejoices the heart, And a good report makes the bones healthy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The ear that hears the rebukes of life Will abide among the wise. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who disdains instruction despises his own soul, But he who heeds rebuke gets understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom, And before honor is humility. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 16
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 The preparations of the heart belong to man, But the answer of the tongue is from the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, But the LORD weighs the spirits. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Commit your works to the LORD, And your thoughts will be established. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD has made all for Himself, Yes, even the wicked for the day of doom. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Everyone proud in heart is an abomination to the LORD; Though they join forces, none will go unpunished. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In mercy and truth Atonement is provided for iniquity; And by the fear of the LORD one departs from evil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When a man's ways please the LORD, He makes even his enemies to be at peace with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Better is a little with righteousness, Than vast revenues without justice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man's heart plans his way, But the LORD directs his steps. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Divination is on the lips of the king; His mouth must not transgress in judgment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Honest weights and scales are the LORD's; All the weights in the bag are His work. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is an abomination for kings to commit wickedness, For a throne is established by righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Righteous lips are the delight of kings, And they love him who speaks what is right. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As messengers of death is the king's wrath, But a wise man will appease it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the light of the king's face is life, And his favor is like a cloud of the latter rain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How much better to get wisdom than gold! And to get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The highway of the upright is to depart from evil; He who keeps his way preserves his soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Pride goes before destruction, And a haughty spirit before a fall. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Better to be of a humble spirit with the lowly, Than to divide the spoil with the proud. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who heeds the word wisely will find good, And whoever trusts in the LORD, happy is he. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wise in heart will be called prudent, And sweetness of the lips increases learning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Understanding is a wellspring of life to him who has it. But the correction of fools is folly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heart of the wise teaches his mouth, And adds learning to his lips.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Pleasant words are like a honeycomb, Sweetness to the soul and health to the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 bones. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is a way that seems right to a man, But its end is the way of death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The person who labors, labors for himself, For his hungry mouth drives him on. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 An ungodly man digs up evil, And it is on his lips like a burning fire. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A perverse man sows strife, And a whisperer separates the best of friends. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A violent man entices his neighbor, And leads him in a way that is not good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He winks his eye to devise perverse things; He purses his lips and brings about evil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The silver-haired head is a crown of glory, If it is found in the way of righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who is slow to anger is better than the mighty, And he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lot is cast into the lap, But its every decision is from the LORD.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 17
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Better is a dry morsel with quietness, Than a house full of feasting with strife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wise servant will rule over a son who causes shame, And will share an inheritance among the brothers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The refining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, But the LORD tests the hearts. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 An evildoer gives heed to false lips; A liar listens eagerly to a spiteful tongue. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who mocks the poor reproaches his Maker; He who is glad at calamity will not go unpunished. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Children's children are the crown of old men, And the glory of children is their father. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Excellent speech is not becoming to a fool, Much less lying lips to a prince. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A present is a precious stone in the eyes of its possessor; Wherever he turns, he prospers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who covers a transgression seeks love, But he who repeats a matter separates friends. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rebuke is more effective for a wise man Than a hundred blows on a fool.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 An evil man seeks only rebellion; Therefore a cruel messenger will be sent against 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let a man meet a bear robbed of her cubs, Rather than a fool in his folly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever rewards evil for good, Evil will not depart from his house. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The beginning of strife is like releasing water; Therefore stop contention before a quarrel starts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who justifies the wicked, and he who condemns the just, Both of them alike are an abomination to the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why is there in the hand of a fool the purchase price of wisdom, Since he has no heart for it? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A friend loves at all times, And a brother is born for adversity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man devoid of understanding shakes hands in a pledge, And becomes surety for his friend. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who loves transgression loves strife, And he who exalts his gate seeks destruction. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who has a deceitful heart finds no good, And he who has a perverse tongue falls into evil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who begets a scoffer does so to his sorrow, And the father of a fool has no joy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A merry heart does good, like medicine, But a broken spirit dries the bones. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wicked man accepts a bribe behind the back To pervert the ways of justice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wisdom is in the sight of him who has understanding, But the eyes of a fool are on the ends of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A foolish son is a grief to his father, And bitterness to her who bore him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also, to punish the righteous is not good, Nor to strike princes for their uprightness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who has knowledge spares his words, And a man of understanding is of a calm spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even a fool is counted wise when he holds his peace; When he shuts his lips, he is considered perceptive. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 18
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 A man who isolates himself seeks his own desire; He rages against all wise judgment. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A fool has no delight in understanding, But in expressing his own heart.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the wicked comes, contempt comes also; And with dishonor comes reproach. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The words of a man's mouth are deep waters; The wellspring of wisdom is a flowing brook. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is not good to show partiality to the wicked, Or to overthrow the righteous in judgment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A fool's lips enter into contention, And his mouth calls for blows.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A fool's mouth is his destruction, And his lips are the snare of his soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The words of a talebearer are like tasty trifles, And they go down into the inmost body. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who is slothful in his work Is a brother to him who is a great destroyer. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The name of the LORD is a strong tower; The righteous run to it and are safe. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The rich man's wealth is his strong city, And like a high wall in his own esteem. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Before destruction the heart of a man is haughty, And before honor is humility. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who answers a matter before he hears it, It is folly and shame to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The spirit of a man will sustain him in sickness, But who can bear a broken spirit? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heart of the prudent acquires knowledge, And the ear of the wise seeks knowledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man's gift makes room for him, And brings him before great men.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The first one to plead his cause seems right, Until his neighbor comes and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 examines him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Casting lots causes contentions to cease, And keeps the mighty apart. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A brother offended is harder to win than a strong city, And contentions are like the bars of a castle. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man's stomach shall be satisfied from the fruit of his mouth; From the produce of his lips he shall be filled. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Death and life are in the power of the tongue, And those who love it will eat its fruit. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who finds a wife finds a good thing, And obtains favor from the LORD.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The poor man uses entreaties, But the rich answers roughly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man who has friends must himself be friendly, But there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 19
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Better is the poor who walks in his integrity Than one who is perverse in his lips, and is a fool. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also it is not good for a soul to be without knowledge, And he sins who hastens with his feet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The foolishness of a man twists his way, And his heart frets against the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wealth makes many friends, But the poor is separated from his friend. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A false witness will not go unpunished, And he who speaks lies will not escape. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Many entreat the favor of the nobility, And every man is a friend to one who gives gifts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All the brothers of the poor hate him; How much more do his friends go far from him! He may pursue them with words, yet they abandon him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who gets wisdom loves his own soul; He who keeps understanding will find good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A false witness will not go unpunished, And he who speaks lies shall perish. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Luxury is not fitting for a fool, Much less for a servant to rule over princes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The discretion of a man makes him slow to anger, And his glory is to overlook a transgression. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The king's wrath is like the roaring of a lion, But his favor is like dew on the grass. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A foolish son is the ruin of his father, And the contentions of a wife are a continual 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 dripping. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Houses and riches are an inheritance from fathers, But a prudent wife is from the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Laziness casts one into a deep sleep, And an idle person will suffer hunger. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who keeps the commandment keeps his soul, But he who is careless of his ways will die. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who has pity on the poor lends to the LORD, And He will pay back what he has given. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Chasten your son while there is hope, And do not set your heart on his destruction. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man of great wrath will suffer punishment; For if you rescue him, you will have to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 do it again.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Listen to counsel and receive instruction, That you may be wise in your latter days. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There are many plans in a man's heart, Nevertheless the LORD's counsel--that will stand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What is desired in a man is kindness, And a poor man is better than a liar.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fear of the LORD leads to life, And he who has it will abide in satisfaction; He 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 will not be visited with evil. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A lazy man buries his hand in the bowl, And will not so much as bring it to his mouth again. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Strike a scoffer, and the simple will become wary; Rebuke one who has understanding, and he will discern knowledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who mistreats his father and chases away his mother Is a son who causes shame and brings reproach. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Cease listening to instruction, my son, And you will stray from the words of knowledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A disreputable witness scorns justice, And the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Judgments are prepared for scoffers, And beatings for the backs of fools. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 20
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Wine is a mocker, Strong drink is a brawler, And whoever is led astray by it is not wise. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wrath of a king is like the roaring of a lion; Whoever provokes him to anger sins against his own life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is honorable for a man to stop striving, Since any fool can start a quarrel.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lazy man will not plow because of winter; He will beg during harvest and have 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 nothing. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water, But a man of understanding will draw it out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Most men will proclaim each his own goodness, But who can find a faithful man? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous man walks in his integrity; His children are blessed after him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A king who sits on the throne of judgment Scatters all evil with his eyes.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who can say, "I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin"? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Diverse weights and diverse measures, They are both alike, an abomination to the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even a child is known by his deeds, Whether what he does is pure and right. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The hearing ear and the seeing eye, The LORD has made them both. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not love sleep, lest you come to poverty; Open your eyes, and you will be satisfied with bread. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "It is good for nothing," cries the buyer; But when he has gone his way, then he boasts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is gold and a multitude of rubies, But the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Take the garment of one who is surety for a stranger, And hold it as a pledge when it is for a seductress. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bread gained by deceit is sweet to a man, But afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Plans are established by counsel; By wise counsel wage war.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who goes about as a talebearer reveals secrets; Therefore do not associate with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 one who flatters with his lips. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever curses his father or his mother, His lamp will be put out in deep darkness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 An inheritance gained hastily at the beginning Will not be blessed at the end. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not say, "I will recompense evil"; Wait for the LORD, and He will save you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Diverse weights are an abomination to the LORD, And dishonest scales are not good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man's steps are of the LORD; How then can a man understand his own way?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is a snare for a man to devote rashly something as holy, And afterward to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 reconsider his vows.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wise king sifts out the wicked, And brings the threshing wheel over them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The spirit of a man is the lamp of the LORD, Searching all the inner depths of his heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Mercy and truth preserve the king, And by lovingkindness he upholds his throne. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The glory of young men is their strength, And the splendor of old men is their gray 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 head.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blows that hurt cleanse away evil, As do stripes the inner depths of the heart. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 21
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 The king's heart is in the hand of the LORD, Like the rivers of water; He turns it wherever He wishes. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, But the LORD weighs the hearts. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To do righteousness and justice Is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A haughty look, a proud heart, And the plowing of the wicked are sin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The plans of the diligent lead surely to plenty, But those of everyone who is hasty, surely to poverty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Getting treasures by a lying tongue Is the fleeting fantasy of those who seek death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The violence of the wicked will destroy them, Because they refuse to do justice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The way of a guilty man is perverse; But as for the pure, his work is right. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Better to dwell in a corner of a housetop, Than in a house shared with a contentious woman. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The soul of the wicked desires evil; His neighbor finds no favor in his eyes.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the scoffer is punished, the simple is made wise; But when the wise is 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 instructed, he receives knowledge. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous God wisely considers the house of the wicked, Overthrowing the wicked for their wickedness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever shuts his ears to the cry of the poor Will also cry himself and not be heard. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A gift in secret pacifies anger, And a bribe behind the back, strong wrath. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is a joy for the just to do justice, But destruction will come to the workers of iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man who wanders from the way of understanding Will rest in the assembly of the dead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who loves pleasure will be a poor man; He who loves wine and oil will not be rich. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked shall be a ransom for the righteous, And the unfaithful for the upright. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Better to dwell in the wilderness, Than with a contentious and angry woman. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is desirable treasure, And oil in the dwelling of the wise, But a foolish man squanders it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who follows righteousness and mercy Finds life, righteousness and honor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wise man scales the city of the mighty, And brings down the trusted stronghold. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever guards his mouth and tongue Keeps his soul from troubles.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A proud and haughty man--"Scoffer" is his name; He acts with arrogant pride. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The desire of the lazy man kills him, For his hands refuse to labor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He covets greedily all day long, But the righteous gives and does not spare.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination; How much more when he brings it 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 with wicked intent!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A false witness shall perish, But the man who hears him will speak endlessly. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wicked man hardens his face, But as for the upright, he establishes his way. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is no wisdom or understanding Or counsel against the LORD.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The horse is prepared for the day of battle, But deliverance is of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 22
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, Loving favor rather than silver and gold. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The rich and the poor have this in common, The LORD is the maker of them all.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A prudent man foresees evil and hides himself, But the simple pass on and are 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 punished.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By humility and the fear of the LORD Are riches and honor and life. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Thorns and snares are in the way of the perverse; He who guards his soul will be far from them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Train up a child in the way he should go, And when he is old he will not depart from it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The rich rules over the poor, And the borrower is servant to the lender. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who sows iniquity will reap sorrow, And the rod of his anger will fail. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who has a generous eye will be blessed, For he gives of his bread to the poor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Cast out the scoffer, and contention will leave; Yes, strife and reproach will cease. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who loves purity of heart And has grace on his lips, The king will be his friend. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The eyes of the LORD preserve knowledge, But He overthrows the words of the faithless. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lazy man says, "There is a lion outside! I shall be slain in the streets!"\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The mouth of an immoral woman is a deep pit; He who is abhorred by the LORD 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 will fall there. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Foolishness is bound up in the heart of a child; The rod of correction will drive it far from him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who oppresses the poor to increase his riches, And he who gives to the rich, will surely come to poverty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Incline your ear and hear the words of the wise, And apply your heart to my knowledge; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For it is a pleasant thing if you keep them within you; Let them all be fixed upon your lips, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So that your trust may be in the LORD; I have instructed you today, even you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have I not written to you excellent things Of counsels and knowledge, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That I may make you know the certainty of the words of truth, That you may answer words of truth To those who send to you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not rob the poor because he is poor, Nor oppress the afflicted at the gate;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD will plead their cause, And plunder the soul of those who plunder 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make no friendship with an angry man, And with a furious man do not go, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest you learn his ways And set a snare for your soul. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not be one of those who shakes hands in a pledge, One of those who is surety for debts; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you have nothing with which to pay, Why should he take away your bed from under you? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not remove the ancient landmark Which your fathers have set.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you see a man who excels in his work? He will stand before kings; He will not 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 stand before unknown men.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 23
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 When you sit down to eat with a ruler, Consider carefully what is before you; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And put a knife to your throat If you are a man given to appetite. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not desire his delicacies, For they are deceptive food. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not overwork to be rich; Because of your own understanding, cease! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will you set your eyes on that which is not? For riches certainly make themselves wings; They fly away like an eagle toward heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not eat the bread of a miser, Nor desire his delicacies;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For as he thinks in his heart, so is he. "Eat and drink!" he says to you, But his heart 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 is not with you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The morsel you have eaten, you will vomit up, And waste your pleasant words.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not speak in the hearing of a fool, For he will despise the wisdom of your words. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not remove the ancient landmark, Nor enter the fields of the fatherless;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For their Redeemer is mighty; He will plead their cause against you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Apply your heart to instruction, And your ears to words of knowledge.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not withhold correction from a child, For if you beat him with a rod, he will not die. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall beat him with a rod, And deliver his soul from hell. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, if your heart is wise, My heart will rejoice--indeed, I myself; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, my inmost being will rejoice When your lips speak right things. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not let your heart envy sinners, But be zealous for the fear of the LORD all the day; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For surely there is a hereafter, And your hope will not be cut off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear, my son, and be wise; And guide your heart in the way. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not mix with winebibbers, Or with gluttonous eaters of meat; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the drunkard and the glutton will come to poverty, And drowsiness will clothe a man with rags. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Listen to your father who begot you, And do not despise your mother when she is old. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Buy the truth, and do not sell it, Also wisdom and instruction and understanding. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The father of the righteous will greatly rejoice, And he who begets a wise child will 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 delight in him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let your father and your mother be glad, And let her who bore you rejoice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, give me your heart, And let your eyes observe my ways. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For a harlot is a deep pit, And a seductress is a narrow well. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She also lies in wait as for a victim, And increases the unfaithful among men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has contentions? Who has complaints? Who has wounds without cause? Who has redness of eyes? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who linger long at the wine, Those who go in search of mixed wine.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not look on the wine when it is red, When it sparkles in the cup, When it swirls 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 around smoothly;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At the last it bites like a serpent, And stings like a viper. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your eyes will see strange things, And your heart will utter perverse things.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, you will be like one who lies down in the midst of the sea, Or like one who lies 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 at the top of the mast, saying: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "They have struck me, but I was not hurt; They have beaten me, but I did not feel it. When shall I awake, that I may seek another drink? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 24
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Do not be envious of evil men, Nor desire to be with them; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For their heart devises violence, And their lips talk of troublemaking. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Through wisdom a house is built, And by understanding it is established; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By knowledge the rooms are filled With all precious and pleasant riches. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A wise man is strong, Yes, a man of knowledge increases strength; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For by wise counsel you will wage your own war, And in a multitude of counselors there is safety. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wisdom is too lofty for a fool; He does not open his mouth in the gate. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who plots to do evil Will be called a schemer. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The devising of foolishness is sin, And the scoffer is an abomination to men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you faint in the day of adversity, Your strength is small. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver those who are drawn toward death, And hold back those stumbling to the slaughter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you say, "Surely we did not know this," Does not He who weighs the hearts consider it? He who keeps your soul, does He not know it? And will He not render to each man according to his deeds? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, eat honey because it is good, And the honeycomb which is sweet to your taste; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So shall the knowledge of wisdom be to your soul; If you have found it, there is a prospect, And your hope will not be cut off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not lie in wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the righteous; Do not plunder his resting place; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For a righteous man may fall seven times And rise again, But the wicked shall fall by calamity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not rejoice when your enemy falls, And do not let your heart be glad when he stumbles; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest the LORD see it, and it displease Him, And He turn away His wrath from him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not fret because of evildoers, Nor be envious of the wicked; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For there will be no prospect for the evil man; The lamp of the wicked will be put out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, fear the LORD and the king; Do not associate with those given to change; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For their calamity will rise suddenly, And who knows the ruin those two can bring? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 These things also belong to the wise: It is not good to show partiality in judgment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who says to the wicked, "You are righteous," Him the people will curse; Nations will abhor him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But those who rebuke the wicked will have delight, And a good blessing will come upon them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who gives a right answer kisses the lips.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Prepare your outside work, Make it fit for yourself in the field; And afterward build 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 your house. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not be a witness against your neighbor without cause, For would you deceive with your lips? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not say, "I will do to him just as he has done to me; I will render to the man according to his work." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I went by the field of the lazy man, And by the vineyard of the man devoid of understanding; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And there it was, all overgrown with thorns; Its surface was covered with nettles; Its stone wall was broken down. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I saw it, I considered it well; I looked on it and received instruction:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A little sleep, a little slumber, A little folding of the hands to rest;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So shall your poverty come like a prowler, And your need like an armed man. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 25
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 These also are proverbs of Solomon which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is the glory of God to conceal a matter, But the glory of kings is to search out a matter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As the heavens for height and the earth for depth, So the heart of kings is unsearchable. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Take away the dross from silver, And it will go to the silversmith for jewelry.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Take away the wicked from before the king, And his throne will be established in 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not exalt yourself in the presence of the king, And do not stand in the place of the great; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For it is better that he say to you, "Come up here," Than that you should be put lower in the presence of the prince, Whom your eyes have seen. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not go hastily to court; For what will you do in the end, When your neighbor has put you to shame? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Debate your case with your neighbor, And do not disclose the secret to another; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest he who hears it expose your shame, And your reputation be ruined.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold In settings of silver. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like an earring of gold and an ornament of fine gold Is a wise rebuker to an obedient ear. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like the cold of snow in time of harvest Is a faithful messenger to those who send him, For he refreshes the soul of his masters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever falsely boasts of giving Is like clouds and wind without rain.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By long forbearance a ruler is persuaded, And a gentle tongue breaks a bone. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have you found honey? Eat only as much as you need, Lest you be filled with it and vomit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Seldom set foot in your neighbor's house, Lest he become weary of you and hate you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man who bears false witness against his neighbor Is like a club, a sword, and a sharp arrow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble Is like a bad tooth and a foot out of joint. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like one who takes away a garment in cold weather, And like vinegar on soda, Is one who sings songs to a heavy heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat; And if he is thirsty, give him water to drink; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For so you will heap coals of fire on his head, And the LORD will reward you. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The north wind brings forth rain, And a backbiting tongue an angry countenance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is better to dwell in a corner of a housetop, Than in a house shared with a contentious woman. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As cold water to a weary soul, So is good news from a far country.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A righteous man who falters before the wicked Is like a murky spring and a polluted 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 well.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is not good to eat much honey; So to seek one's own glory is not glory. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever has no rule over his own spirit Is like a city broken down, without walls. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 26
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 As snow in summer and rain in harvest, So honor is not fitting for a fool. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like a flitting sparrow, like a flying swallow, So a curse without cause shall not alight. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A whip for the horse, A bridle for the donkey, And a rod for the fool's back.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not answer a fool according to his folly, Lest you also be like him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Answer a fool according to his folly, Lest he be wise in his own eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who sends a message by the hand of a fool Cuts off his own feet and drinks violence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like the legs of the lame that hang limp Is a proverb in the mouth of fools. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like one who binds a stone in a sling Is he who gives honor to a fool. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like a thorn that goes into the hand of a drunkard Is a proverb in the mouth of fools. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The great God who formed everything Gives the fool his hire and the transgressor his wages. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As a dog returns to his own vomit, So a fool repeats his folly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you see a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lazy man says, "There is a lion in the road! A fierce lion is in the streets!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As a door turns on its hinges, So does the lazy man on his bed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lazy man buries his hand in the bowl; It wearies him to bring it back to his mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lazy man is wiser in his own eyes Than seven men who can answer sensibly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who passes by and meddles in a quarrel not his own Is like one who takes a dog by the ears. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is the man who deceives his neighbor, And says, "I was only joking!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Where there is no wood, the fire goes out; And where there is no talebearer, strife ceases. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As charcoal is to burning coals, and wood to fire, So is a contentious man to kindle strife. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The words of a talebearer are like tasty trifles, And they go down into the inmost body. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Fervent lips with a wicked heart Are like earthenware covered with silver dross. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who hates, disguises it with his lips, And lays up deceit within himself; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When he speaks kindly, do not believe him, For there are seven abominations in his heart; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though his hatred is covered by deceit, His wickedness will be revealed before the assembly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever digs a pit will fall into it, And he who rolls a stone will have it roll back on him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A lying tongue hates those who are crushed by it, And a flattering mouth works ruin. 
\b\fs64 \cf4 27
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Do not boast about tomorrow, For you do not know what a day may bring forth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let another man praise you, and not your own mouth; A stranger, and not your own lips. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A stone is heavy and sand is weighty, But a fool's wrath is heavier than both of them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wrath is cruel and anger a torrent, But who is able to stand before jealousy?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Open rebuke is better Than love carefully concealed.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Faithful are the wounds of a friend, But the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A satisfied soul loathes the honeycomb, But to a hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like a bird that wanders from its nest Is a man who wanders from his place. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Ointment and perfume delight the heart, And the sweetness of a man's friend gives 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 delight by hearty counsel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not forsake your own friend or your father's friend, Nor go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity; Better is a neighbor nearby than a brother far away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, That I may answer him who reproaches me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A prudent man foresees evil and hides himself; The simple pass on and are punished. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Take the garment of him who is surety for a stranger, And hold it in pledge when he is surety for a seductress. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who blesses his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, It will be counted a curse to him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A continual dripping on a very rainy day And a contentious woman are alike; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever restrains her restrains the wind, And grasps oil with his right hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As iron sharpens iron, So a man sharpens the countenance of his friend. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever keeps the fig tree will eat its fruit; So he who waits on his master will be honored. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As in water face reflects face, So a man's heart reveals the man.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hell and Destruction are never full; So the eyes of man are never satisfied. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The refining pot is for silver and the furnace for gold, And a man is valued by what others say of him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though you grind a fool in a mortar with a pestle along with crushed grain, Yet his foolishness will not depart from him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be diligent to know the state of your flocks, And attend to your herds; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For riches are not forever, Nor does a crown endure to all generations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the hay is removed, and the tender grass shows itself, And the herbs of the mountains are gathered in, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lambs will provide your clothing, And the goats the price of a field;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall have enough goats' milk for your food, For the food of your household, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 And the nourishment of your maidservants.\uc0\u8232 
\b\fs64 \cf4 28
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 The wicked flee when no one pursues, But the righteous are bold as a lion. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because of the transgression of a land, many are its princes; But by a man of understanding and knowledge Right will be prolonged. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A poor man who oppresses the poor Is like a driving rain which leaves no food. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, But such as keep the law contend 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 with them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Evil men do not understand justice, But those who seek the LORD understand all. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Better is the poor who walks in his integrity Than one perverse in his ways, though he be rich. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever keeps the law is a discerning son, But a companion of gluttons shames his father. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 One who increases his possessions by usury and extortion Gathers it for him who will pity the poor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 One who turns away his ear from hearing the law, Even his prayer is an abomination. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever causes the upright to go astray in an evil way, He himself will fall into his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 own pit; But the blameless will inherit good. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The rich man is wise in his own eyes, But the poor who has understanding searches him out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the righteous rejoice, there is great glory; But when the wicked arise, men hide themselves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who covers his sins will not prosper, But whoever confesses and forsakes them will have mercy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Happy is the man who is always reverent, But he who hardens his heart will fall into calamity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like a roaring lion and a charging bear Is a wicked ruler over poor people.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A ruler who lacks understanding is a great oppressor, But he who hates 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 covetousness will prolong his days.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man burdened with bloodshed will flee into a pit; Let no one help him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever walks blamelessly will be saved, But he who is perverse in his ways will suddenly fall. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who tills his land will have plenty of bread, But he who follows frivolity will have poverty enough! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A faithful man will abound with blessings, But he who hastens to be rich will not go unpunished. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To show partiality is not good, Because for a piece of bread a man will transgress. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man with an evil eye hastens after riches, And does not consider that poverty will 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 come upon him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who rebukes a man will find more favor afterward Than he who flatters with the tongue. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever robs his father or his mother, And says, "It is no transgression," The same is companion to a destroyer. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who is of a proud heart stirs up strife, But he who trusts in the LORD will be prospered. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who trusts in his own heart is a fool, But whoever walks wisely will be delivered. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who gives to the poor will not lack, But he who hides his eyes will have many curses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the wicked arise, men hide themselves; But when they perish, the righteous increase. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 29
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 He who is often rebuked, and hardens his neck, Will suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice; But when a wicked man rules, the people groan. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever loves wisdom makes his father rejoice, But a companion of harlots wastes his wealth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The king establishes the land by justice, But he who receives bribes overthrows it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man who flatters his neighbor Spreads a net for his feet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By transgression an evil man is snared, But the righteous sings and rejoices. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous considers the cause of the poor, But the wicked does not understand such knowledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Scoffers set a city aflame, But wise men turn away wrath.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If a wise man contends with a foolish man, Whether the fool rages or laughs, there is 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 no peace. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The bloodthirsty hate the blameless, But the upright seek his well-being. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A fool vents all his feelings, But a wise man holds them back. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If a ruler pays attention to lies, All his servants become wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The poor man and the oppressor have this in common: The LORD gives light to the eyes of both. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The king who judges the poor with truth, His throne will be established forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The rod and rebuke give wisdom, But a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increases; But the righteous will see their fall. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Correct your son, and he will give you rest; Yes, he will give delight to your soul. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Where there is no revelation, the people cast off restraint; But happy is he who 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 keeps the law. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A servant will not be corrected by mere words; For though he understands, he will not respond. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you see a man hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who pampers his servant from childhood Will have him as a son in the end. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 An angry man stirs up strife, And a furious man abounds in transgression. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man's pride will bring him low, But the humble in spirit will retain honor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever is a partner with a thief hates his own life; He swears to tell the truth, but reveals nothing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fear of man brings a snare, But whoever trusts in the LORD shall be safe. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Many seek the ruler's favor, But justice for man comes from the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, And he who is upright in the way is an abomination to the wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 30
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, his utterance. This man declared to Ithiel-- to Ithiel and Ucal: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely I am more stupid than any man, And do not have the understanding of a man. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I neither learned wisdom Nor have knowledge of the Holy One. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who has ascended into heaven, or descended? Who has gathered the wind in His fists? Who has bound the waters in a garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is His name, and what is His Son's name, If you know? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Every word of God is pure; He is a shield to those who put their trust in Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not add to His words, Lest He rebuke you, and you be found a liar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Two things I request of You (Deprive me not before I die): 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remove falsehood and lies far from me; Give me neither poverty nor riches-- Feed me with the food allotted to me; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest I be full and deny You, And say, "Who is the LORD?" Or lest I be poor and steal, And profane the name of my God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not malign a servant to his master, Lest he curse you, and you be found guilty. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is a generation that curses its father, And does not bless its mother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is a generation that is pure in its own eyes, Yet is not washed from its filthiness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is a generation-- oh, how lofty are their eyes! And their eyelids are lifted up. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is a generation whose teeth are like swords, And whose fangs are like knives, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 To devour the poor from off the earth, And the needy from among men. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The leech has two daughters-- Give and Give! There are three things that are never satisfied, Four never say, "Enough!": 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The grave, The barren womb, The earth that is not satisfied with water-- And the fire never says, "Enough!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The eye that mocks his father, And scorns obedience to his mother, The ravens of the valley will pick it out, And the young eagles will eat it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There are three things which are too wonderful for me, Yes, four which I do not understand: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The way of an eagle in the air, The way of a serpent on a rock, The way of a ship in the midst of the sea, And the way of a man with a virgin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This is the way of an adulterous woman: She eats and wipes her mouth, And says, "I have done no wickedness." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For three things the earth is perturbed, Yes, for four it cannot bear up: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For a servant when he reigns, A fool when he is filled with food, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A hateful woman when she is married, And a maidservant who succeeds her mistress. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There are four things which are little on the earth, But they are exceedingly wise: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The ants are a people not strong, Yet they prepare their food in the summer; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The rock badgers are a feeble folk, Yet they make their homes in the crags; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The locusts have no king, Yet they all advance in ranks; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The spider skillfully grasps with its hands, And it is in kings' palaces.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There are three things which are majestic in pace, Yes, four which are stately in 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 walk: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A lion, which is mighty among beasts And does not turn away from any; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A greyhound, A male goat also, And a king whose troops are with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If you have been foolish in exalting yourself, Or if you have devised evil, put your hand on your mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For as the churning of milk produces butter, And wringing the nose produces blood, So the forcing of wrath produces strife. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs64 \cf4 31
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 The words of King Lemuel, the utterance which his mother taught him: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What, my son? And what, son of my womb? And what, son of my vows? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not give your strength to women, Nor your ways to that which destroys kings. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is not for kings, O Lemuel, It is not for kings to drink wine, Nor for princes intoxicating drink; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest they drink and forget the law, And pervert the justice of all the afflicted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give strong drink to him who is perishing, And wine to those who are bitter of heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let him drink and forget his poverty, And remember his misery no more. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Open your mouth for the speechless, In the cause of all who are appointed to die. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Open your mouth, judge righteously, And plead the cause of the poor and needy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who can find a virtuous wife? For her worth is far above rubies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heart of her husband safely trusts her; So he will have no lack of gain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She does him good and not evil All the days of her life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She seeks wool and flax, And willingly works with her hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She is like the merchant ships, She brings her food from afar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She also rises while it is yet night, And provides food for her household, And a portion for her maidservants. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She considers a field and buys it; From her profits she plants a vineyard. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She girds herself with strength, And strengthens her arms. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She perceives that her merchandise is good, And her lamp does not go out by night. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She stretches out her hands to the distaff, And her hand holds the spindle. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She extends her hand to the poor, Yes, she reaches out her hands to the needy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She is not afraid of snow for her household, For all her household is clothed with scarlet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She makes tapestry for herself; Her clothing is fine linen and purple. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Her husband is known in the gates, When he sits among the elders of the land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She makes linen garments and sells them, And supplies sashes for the merchants. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Strength and honor are her clothing; She shall rejoice in time to come. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She opens her mouth with wisdom, And on her tongue is the law of kindness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She watches over the ways of her household, And does not eat the bread of idleness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Her children rise up and call her blessed; Her husband also, and he praises her: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Many daughters have done well, But you excel them all." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Charm is deceitful and beauty is passing, But a woman who fears the LORD, she shall be praised. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give her of the fruit of her hands, And let her own works praise her in the gates. 
\f0\fs24 \
}