{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf810
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red39\green77\blue192;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c20000\c39608\c80000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl740\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs64 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Psalms 
\fs32 PSALM 1 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is the man Who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, Nor stands in the path of sinners, Nor sits in the seat of the scornful; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But his delight is in the law of the LORD, And in His law he meditates day and night. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall be like a tree Planted by the rivers of water, That brings forth its fruit in its 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 season, Whose leaf also shall not wither; And whatever he does shall prosper. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The ungodly are not so, But are like the chaff which the wind drives away. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, Nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD knows the way of the righteous, But the way of the ungodly shall perish. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 2 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do the nations rage, And the people plot a vain thing?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The kings of the earth set themselves, And the rulers take counsel together, Against 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the LORD and against His Anointed, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Let us break Their bonds in pieces And cast away Their cords from us." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who sits in the heavens shall laugh; The LORD shall hold them in derision. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then He shall speak to them in His wrath, And distress them in His deep displeasure: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Yet I have set My King On My holy hill of Zion." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I will declare the decree: The LORD has said to Me, "You are My Son, Today I have begotten You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Ask of Me, and I will give You The nations for Your inheritance, And the ends of the earth for Your possession. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall break them with a rod of iron; You shall dash them to pieces like a potter's vessel."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now therefore, be wise, O kings; Be instructed, you judges of the earth. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Serve the LORD with fear, And rejoice with trembling. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Kiss the Son, lest He be angry, And you perish in the way, When His wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all those who put their trust in Him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 3 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, how they have increased who trouble me! Many are they who rise up against me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Many are they who say of me, "There is no help for him in God."Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You, O LORD, are a shield for me, My glory and the One who lifts up my head. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I cried to the LORD with my voice, And He heard me from His holy hill.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I lay down and slept; I awoke, for the LORD sustained me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people Who have set themselves against me all around. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Arise, O LORD; Save me, O my God! For You have struck all my enemies on the cheekbone; You have broken the teeth of the ungodly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Salvation belongs to the LORD. Your blessing is upon Your people.Selah 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 4 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness! You have relieved me in my distress; Have mercy on me, and hear my prayer. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How long, O you sons of men, Will you turn my glory to shame? How long will you love worthlessness And seek falsehood?Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But know that the LORD has set apart for Himself him who is godly; The LORD will hear when I call to Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be angry, and do not sin. Meditate within your heart on your bed, and be still.Selah 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, And put your trust in the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There are many who say, "Who will show us any good?" LORD, lift up the light of Your countenance upon us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have put gladness in my heart, More than in the season that their grain and wine increased. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will both lie down in peace, and sleep; For You alone, O LORD, make me dwell in safety. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 5 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give ear to my words, O LORD, Consider my meditation.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give heed to the voice of my cry, My King and my God, For to You I will pray. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My voice You shall hear in the morning, O LORD; In the morning I will direct it to You, And I will look up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You are not a God who takes pleasure in wickedness, Nor shall evil dwell with You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The boastful shall not stand in Your sight; You hate all workers of iniquity.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall destroy those who speak falsehood; The LORD abhors the bloodthirsty 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and deceitful man. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But as for me, I will come into Your house in the multitude of Your mercy; In fear of You I will worship toward Your holy temple. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lead me, O LORD, in Your righteousness because of my enemies; Make Your way straight before my face. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; Their inward part is destruction; Their throat is an open tomb; They flatter with their tongue. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Pronounce them guilty, O God! Let them fall by their own counsels; Cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions, For they have rebelled against You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But let all those rejoice who put their trust in You; Let them ever shout for joy, because You defend them; Let those also who love Your name Be joyful in You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You, O LORD, will bless the righteous; With favor You will surround him as with a shield. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 6 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, do not rebuke me in Your anger, Nor chasten me in Your hot displeasure. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have mercy on me, O LORD, for I am weak; O LORD, heal me, for my bones are 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 troubled. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul also is greatly troubled; But You, O LORD--how long? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Return, O LORD, deliver me! Oh, save me for Your mercies' sake! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For in death there is no remembrance of You; In the grave who will give You thanks? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am weary with my groaning; All night I make my bed swim; I drench my couch with my tears. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My eye wastes away because of grief; It grows old because of all my enemies. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Depart from me, all you workers of iniquity; For the LORD has heard the voice of my 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 weeping.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD has heard my supplication; The LORD will receive my prayer. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let all my enemies be ashamed and greatly troubled; Let them turn back and be ashamed suddenly. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 7 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD my God, in You I put my trust; Save me from all those who persecute me; And deliver me, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest they tear me like a lion, Rending me in pieces, while there is none to deliver. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD my God, if I have done this: If there is iniquity in my hands, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I have repaid evil to him who was at peace with me, Or have plundered my enemy without cause, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the enemy pursue me and overtake me; Yes, let him trample my life to the earth, And lay my honor in the dust.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Arise, O LORD, in Your anger; Lift Yourself up because of the rage of my enemies; Rise up for me to the judgment You have commanded! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the congregation of the peoples shall surround You; For their sakes, therefore, return on high. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD shall judge the peoples; Judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness, And according to my integrity within me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, But establish the just; For the righteous God tests the hearts and minds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My defense is of God, Who saves the upright in heart.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God is a just judge, And God is angry with the wicked every day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If he does not turn back, He will sharpen His sword; He bends His bow and makes it ready. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also prepares for Himself instruments of death; He makes His arrows into fiery shafts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, the wicked brings forth iniquity; Yes, he conceives trouble and brings forth falsehood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He made a pit and dug it out, And has fallen into the ditch which he made.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His trouble shall return upon his own head, And his violent dealing shall come down 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 on his own crown. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise the LORD according to His righteousness, And will sing praise to the name of the LORD Most High. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 8 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, our Lord, How excellent is Your name in all the earth, Who have set Your glory above the heavens! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Out of the mouth of babes and nursing infants You have ordained strength, Because of Your enemies, That You may silence the enemy and the avenger. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I consider Your heavens, the work of Your fingers, The moon and the stars, which You have ordained, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What is man that You are mindful of him, And the son of man that You visit him? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You have made him a little lower than the angels, And You have crowned him 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 with glory and honor. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have made him to have dominion over the works of Your hands; You have put all things under his feet, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All sheep and oxen-- Even the beasts of the field,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The birds of the air, And the fish of the sea That pass through the paths of the seas. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, our Lord, How excellent is Your name in all the earth! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 9 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise You, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will tell of all Your marvelous works. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will be glad and rejoice in You; I will sing praise to Your name, O Most High. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When my enemies turn back, They shall fall and perish at Your presence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You have maintained my right and my cause; You sat on the throne judging in righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have rebuked the nations, You have destroyed the wicked; You have blotted out their name forever and ever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O enemy, destructions are finished forever! And you have destroyed cities; Even their memory has perished. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the LORD shall endure forever; He has prepared His throne for judgment.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall judge the world in righteousness, And He shall administer judgment for the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 peoples in uprightness.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, A refuge in times of trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And those who know Your name will put their trust in You; For You, LORD, have not forsaken those who seek You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing praises to the LORD, who dwells in Zion! Declare His deeds among the people. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When He avenges blood, He remembers them; He does not forget the cry of the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 humble. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have mercy on me, O LORD! Consider my trouble from those who hate me, You who lift me up from the gates of death, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That I may tell of all Your praise In the gates of the daughter of Zion. I will rejoice in Your salvation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The nations have sunk down in the pit which they made; In the net which they hid, their own foot is caught. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is known by the judgment He executes; The wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked shall be turned into hell, And all the nations that forget God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the needy shall not always be forgotten; The expectation of the poor shall not 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 perish forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Arise, O LORD, Do not let man prevail; Let the nations be judged in Your sight. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Put them in fear, O LORD, That the nations may know themselves to be but men.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 10 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do You stand afar off, O LORD? Why do You hide in times of trouble? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked in his pride persecutes the poor; Let them be caught in the plots which they have devised. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the wicked boasts of his heart's desire; He blesses the greedy and renounces the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked in his proud countenance does not seek God; God is in none of his thoughts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His ways are always prospering; Your judgments are far above, out of his sight; As for all his enemies, he sneers at them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has said in his heart, "I shall not be moved; I shall never be in adversity."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and oppression; Under his tongue is trouble 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sits in the lurking places of the villages; In the secret places he murders the innocent; His eyes are secretly fixed on the helpless. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He lies in wait secretly, as a lion in his den; He lies in wait to catch the poor; He catches the poor when he draws him into his net. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he crouches, he lies low, That the helpless may fall by his strength. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has said in his heart, "God has forgotten; He hides His face; He will never see." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Arise, O LORD! O God, lift up Your hand! Do not forget the humble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do the wicked renounce God? He has said in his heart, "You will not require an account." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You have seen, for You observe trouble and grief, To repay it by Your hand. The helpless commits himself to You; You are the helper of the fatherless. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Break the arm of the wicked and the evil man; Seek out his wickedness until You find none. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is King forever and ever; The nations have perished out of His land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, You have heard the desire of the humble; You will prepare their heart; You will cause Your ear to hear, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, That the man of the earth may oppress no more. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 11 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the LORD I put my trust; How can you say to my soul, "Flee as a bird to your mountain"? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For look! The wicked bend their bow, They make ready their arrow on the string, That they may shoot secretly at the upright in heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If the foundations are destroyed, What can the righteous do?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is in His holy temple, The LORD's throne is in heaven; His eyes behold, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 His eyelids test the sons of men. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD tests the righteous, But the wicked and the one who loves violence His soul hates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Upon the wicked He will rain coals; Fire and brimstone and a burning wind Shall be the portion of their cup. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD is righteous, He loves righteousness; His countenance beholds the upright. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 12 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Help, LORD, for the godly man ceases! For the faithful disappear from among the sons of men. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They speak idly everyone with his neighbor; With flattering lips and a double heart they speak. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May the LORD cut off all flattering lips, And the tongue that speaks proud things, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who have said, "With our tongue we will prevail; Our lips are our own; Who is lord 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 over us?" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, Now I will arise," says the LORD; "I will set him in the safety for which he yearns." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The words of the LORD are pure words, Like silver tried in a furnace of earth, Purified seven times. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall keep them, O LORD, You shall preserve them from this generation forever. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked prowl on every side, When vileness is exalted among the sons of men. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 13 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How long, O LORD? Will You forget me forever? How long will You hide Your face from me? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How long shall I take counsel in my soul, Having sorrow in my heart daily? How long will my enemy be exalted over me? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Consider and hear me, O LORD my God; Enlighten my eyes, Lest I sleep the sleep of death; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lest my enemy say, "I have prevailed against him"; Lest those who trouble me rejoice when I am moved. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I have trusted in Your mercy; My heart shall rejoice in Your salvation. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will sing to the LORD, Because He has dealt bountifully with me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 14 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fool has said in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, They have done abominable works, There is none who does good. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD looks down from heaven upon the children of men, To see if there are any who understand, who seek God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have all turned aside, They have together become corrupt; There is none who does good, No, not one. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge, Who eat up my people as they eat bread, And do not call on the LORD? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There they are in great fear, For God is with the generation of the righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shame the counsel of the poor, But the LORD is his refuge.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion! When the LORD brings back 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the captivity of His people, Let Jacob rejoice and Israel be glad. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 15 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, who may abide in Your tabernacle? Who may dwell in Your holy hill?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who walks uprightly, And works righteousness, And speaks the truth in his heart; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who does not backbite with his tongue, Nor does evil to his neighbor, Nor does he take up a reproach against his friend; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In whose eyes a vile person is despised, But he honors those who fear the LORD; He who swears to his own hurt and does not change; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who does not put out his money at usury, Nor does he take a bribe against the innocent. He who does these things shall never be moved. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 16 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Preserve me, O God, for in You I put my trust.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O my soul, you have said to the LORD, "You are my Lord, My goodness is nothing 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 apart from You." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for the saints who are on the earth, "They are the excellent ones, in whom is all my delight." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their sorrows shall be multiplied who hasten after another god; Their drink offerings of blood I will not offer, Nor take up their names on my lips. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, You are the portion of my inheritance and my cup; You maintain my lot. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places; Yes, I have a good inheritance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will bless the LORD who has given me counsel; My heart also instructs me in the night seasons. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have set the LORD always before me; Because He is at my right hand I shall not be moved. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices; My flesh also will rest in hope. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You will not leave my soul in Sheol, Nor will You allow Your Holy One to see 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 corruption. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You will show me the path of life; In Your presence is fullness of joy; At Your right hand are pleasures forevermore. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 17 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear a just cause, O LORD, Attend to my cry; Give ear to my prayer which is not from deceitful lips. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let my vindication come from Your presence; Let Your eyes look on the things that are upright. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have tested my heart; You have visited me in the night; You have tried me and have found nothing; I have purposed that my mouth shall not transgress. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Concerning the works of men, By the word of Your lips, I have kept away from the paths of the destroyer. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Uphold my steps in Your paths, That my footsteps may not slip.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have called upon You, for You will hear me, O God; Incline Your ear to me, and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 hear my speech. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Show Your marvelous lovingkindness by Your right hand, O You who save those who trust in You From those who rise up against them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Keep me as the apple of Your eye; Hide me under the shadow of Your wings, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From the wicked who oppress me, From my deadly enemies who surround me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have closed up their fat hearts; With their mouths they speak proudly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have now surrounded us in our steps; They have set their eyes, crouching down to the earth, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As a lion is eager to tear his prey, And like a young lion lurking in secret places. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Arise, O LORD, Confront him, cast him down; Deliver my life from the wicked with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Your sword, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With Your hand from men, O LORD, From men of the world who have their portion in this life, And whose belly You fill with Your hidden treasure. They are satisfied with children, And leave the rest of their possession for their babes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for me, I will see Your face in righteousness; I shall be satisfied when I awake in Your likeness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 18 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will love You, O LORD, my strength.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer; My God, my strength, in 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 whom I will trust; My shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised; So shall I be saved from my enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The pangs of death surrounded me, And the floods of ungodliness made me afraid. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The sorrows of Sheol surrounded me; The snares of death confronted me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In my distress I called upon the LORD, And cried out to my God; He heard my voice from His temple, And my cry came before Him, even to His ears. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the earth shook and trembled; The foundations of the hills also quaked and were shaken, Because He was angry. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Smoke went up from His nostrils, And devouring fire from His mouth; Coals were kindled by it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He bowed the heavens also, and came down With darkness under His feet. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He rode upon a cherub, and flew; He flew upon the wings of the wind. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He made darkness His secret place; His canopy around Him was dark waters And thick clouds of the skies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From the brightness before Him, His thick clouds passed with hailstones and coals of fire. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD thundered from heaven, And the Most High uttered His voice, Hailstones and coals of fire. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sent out His arrows and scattered the foe, Lightnings in abundance, and He vanquished them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the channels of the sea were seen, The foundations of the world were uncovered At Your rebuke, O LORD, At the blast of the breath of Your nostrils. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sent from above, He took me; He drew me out of many waters.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He delivered me from my strong enemy, From those who hated me, For they were 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 too strong for me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They confronted me in the day of my calamity, But the LORD was my support. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also brought me out into a broad place; He delivered me because He delighted in me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; According to the cleanness of my hands He has recompensed me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I have kept the ways of the LORD, And have not wickedly departed from my God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For all His judgments were before me, And I did not put away His statutes from me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was also blameless before Him, And I kept myself from my iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore the LORD has recompensed me according to my righteousness, According to the cleanness of my hands in His sight. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With the merciful You will show Yourself merciful; With a blameless man You will show Yourself blameless; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With the pure You will show Yourself pure; And with the devious You will show Yourself shrewd. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You will save the humble people, But will bring down haughty looks. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You will light my lamp; The LORD my God will enlighten my darkness. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For by You I can run against a troop, By my God I can leap over a wall. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for God, His way is perfect; The word of the LORD is proven; He is a shield to all who trust in Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For who is God, except the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is God who arms me with strength, And makes my way perfect. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He makes my feet like the feet of deer, And sets me on my high places. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He teaches my hands to make war, So that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have also given me the shield of Your salvation; Your right hand has held me up, Your gentleness has made me great. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You enlarged my path under me, So my feet did not slip.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have pursued my enemies and overtaken them; Neither did I turn back again till 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 they were destroyed.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have wounded them, So that they could not rise; They have fallen under my feet. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You have armed me with strength for the battle; You have subdued under me those who rose up against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have also given me the necks of my enemies, So that I destroyed those who hated me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They cried out, but there was none to save; Even to the LORD, but He did not answer them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I beat them as fine as the dust before the wind; I cast them out like dirt in the streets. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have delivered me from the strivings of the people; You have made me the head of the nations; A people I have not known shall serve me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As soon as they hear of me they obey me; The foreigners submit to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The foreigners fade away, And come frightened from their hideouts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD lives! Blessed be my Rock! Let the God of my salvation be exalted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is God who avenges me, And subdues the peoples under me; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He delivers me from my enemies. You also lift me up above those who rise against me; You have delivered me from the violent man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I will give thanks to You, O LORD, among the Gentiles, And sing praises to Your name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Great deliverance He gives to His king, And shows mercy to His anointed, To David and his descendants forevermore. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 19 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament shows His handiwork. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Day unto day utters speech, And night unto night reveals knowledge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is no speech nor language Where their voice is not heard. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their line has gone out through all the earth, And their words to the end of the world. In them He has set a tabernacle for the sun, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Which is like a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, And rejoices like a strong man to run its race. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Its rising is from one end of heaven, And its circuit to the other end; And there is nothing hidden from its heat. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul; The testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart; The commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring forever; The judgments of the LORD are true and righteous altogether. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 More to be desired are they than gold, Yea, than much fine gold; Sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Moreover by them Your servant is warned, And in keeping them there is great reward. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who can understand his errors? Cleanse me from secret faults.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Keep back Your servant also from presumptuous sins; Let them not have dominion 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 over me. Then I shall be blameless, And I shall be innocent of great transgression. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart Be acceptable in Your sight, O LORD, my strength and my Redeemer. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 20 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May the LORD answer you in the day of trouble; May the name of the God of Jacob defend you; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May He send you help from the sanctuary, And strengthen you out of Zion; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May He remember all your offerings, And accept your burnt sacrifice.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May He grant you according to your heart's desire, And fulfill all your purpose. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We will rejoice in your salvation, And in the name of our God we will set up our banners! May the LORD fulfill all your petitions. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now I know that the LORD saves His anointed; He will answer him from His holy heaven With the saving strength of His right hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Some trust in chariots, and some in horses; But we will remember the name of the LORD our God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have bowed down and fallen; But we have risen and stand upright. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Save, LORD! May the King answer us when we call. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 21 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The king shall have joy in Your strength, O LORD; And in Your salvation how greatly shall he rejoice! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have given him his heart's desire, And have not withheld the request of his lips.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You meet him with the blessings of goodness; You set a crown of pure gold upon his head. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He asked life from You, and You gave it to him-- Length of days forever and ever. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His glory is great in Your salvation; Honor and majesty You have placed upon him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You have made him most blessed forever; You have made him exceedingly glad with Your presence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the king trusts in the LORD, And through the mercy of the Most High he shall not be moved. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your hand will find all Your enemies; Your right hand will find those who hate You. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall make them as a fiery oven in the time of Your anger; The LORD shall 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 swallow them up in His wrath, And the fire shall devour them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their offspring You shall destroy from the earth, And their descendants from among the sons of men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they intended evil against You; They devised a plot which they are not able to perform. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore You will make them turn their back; You will make ready Your arrows on Your string toward their faces. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be exalted, O LORD, in Your own strength! We will sing and praise Your power. 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 22 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My God, My God, why have You forsaken Me? Why are You so far from helping Me, And from the words of My groaning? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O My God, I cry in the daytime, but You do not hear; And in the night season, and am not silent. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You are holy, Enthroned in the praises of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our fathers trusted in You; They trusted, and You delivered them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They cried to You, and were delivered; They trusted in You, and were not ashamed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I am a worm, and no man; A reproach of men, and despised by the people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All those who see Me ridicule Me; They shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "He trusted in the LORD, let Him rescue Him; Let Him deliver Him, since He delights in Him!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You are He who took Me out of the womb; You made Me trust while on My mother's breasts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was cast upon You from birth. From My mother's womb You have been My God. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be not far from Me, For trouble is near; For there is none to help.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Many bulls have surrounded Me; Strong bulls of Bashan have encircled Me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They gape at Me with their mouths, Like a raging and roaring lion. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am poured out like water, And all My bones are out of joint; My heart is like wax; It has melted within Me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My strength is dried up like a potsherd, And My tongue clings to My jaws; You have brought Me to the dust of death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For dogs have surrounded Me; The congregation of the wicked has enclosed Me. They pierced My hands and My feet; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I can count all My bones. They look and stare at Me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They divide My garments among them, And for My clothing they cast lots. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You, O LORD, do not be far from Me; O My Strength, hasten to help Me! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver Me from the sword, My precious life from the power of the dog. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Save Me from the lion's mouth And from the horns of the wild oxen! You have answered Me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will declare Your name to My brethren; In the midst of the assembly I will praise You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You who fear the LORD, praise Him! All you descendants of Jacob, glorify Him, And fear Him, all you offspring of Israel! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He has not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; Nor has He hidden His face from Him; But when He cried to Him, He heard. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My praise shall be of You in the great assembly; I will pay My vows before those who fear Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The poor shall eat and be satisfied; Those who seek Him will praise the LORD. Let your heart live forever! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All the ends of the world Shall remember and turn to the LORD, And all the families of the nations Shall worship before You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the kingdom is the LORD's, And He rules over the nations.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All the prosperous of the earth Shall eat and worship; All those who go down to the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 dust Shall bow before Him, Even he who cannot keep himself alive.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A posterity shall serve Him. It will be recounted of the Lord to the next generation, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They will come and declare His righteousness to a people who will be born, That He has done this. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 23 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He makes me to lie down in green pastures; He leads me beside the still waters. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He restores my soul; He leads me in the paths of righteousness For His name's sake. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil; For You are with me; Your rod and Your staff, they comfort me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies; You anoint my head with oil; My cup runs over. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me All the days of my life; And I will dwell in the house of the LORD Forever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 24 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The earth is the LORD's, and all its fullness, The world and those who dwell therein. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He has founded it upon the seas, And established it upon the waters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who may ascend into the hill of the LORD? Or who may stand in His holy place? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who has clean hands and a pure heart, Who has not lifted up his soul to an idol, Nor sworn deceitfully. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall receive blessing from the LORD, And righteousness from the God of his salvation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This is Jacob, the generation of those who seek Him, Who seek Your face.Selah 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lift up your heads, O you gates! And be lifted up, you everlasting doors! And the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 King of glory shall come in.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, The LORD mighty in battle. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lift up your heads, O you gates! Lift up, you everlasting doors! And the King of glory shall come in. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, He is the King of glory.Selah 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 25 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To You, O LORD, I lift up my soul. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O my God, I trust in You; Let me not be ashamed; Let not my enemies triumph over me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed, let no one who waits on You be ashamed; Let those be ashamed who deal treacherously without cause. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Show me Your ways, O LORD; Teach me Your paths.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lead me in Your truth and teach me, For You are the God of my salvation; On You I 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wait all the day. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remember, O LORD, Your tender mercies and Your lovingkindnesses, For they are from of old. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not remember the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions; According to Your mercy remember me, For Your goodness' sake, O LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Good and upright is the LORD; Therefore He teaches sinners in the way. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The humble He guides in justice, And the humble He teaches His way. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All the paths of the LORD are mercy and truth, To such as keep His covenant and His testimonies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Your name's sake, O LORD, Pardon my iniquity, for it is great. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who is the man that fears the LORD? Him shall He teach in the way He chooses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He himself shall dwell in prosperity, And his descendants shall inherit the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The secret of the LORD is with those who fear Him, And He will show them His covenant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My eyes are ever toward the LORD, For He shall pluck my feet out of the net. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Turn Yourself to me, and have mercy on me, For I am desolate and afflicted. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The troubles of my heart have enlarged; Bring me out of my distresses! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Look on my affliction and my pain, And forgive all my sins. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Consider my enemies, for they are many; And they hate me with cruel hatred. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Keep my soul, and deliver me; Let me not be ashamed, for I put my trust in You. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, For I wait for You.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Redeem Israel, O God, Out of all their troubles! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 26 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Vindicate me, O LORD, For I have walked in my integrity. I have also trusted in the LORD; I shall not slip. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Examine me, O LORD, and prove me; Try my mind and my heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Your lovingkindness is before my eyes, And I have walked in Your truth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have not sat with idolatrous mortals, Nor will I go in with hypocrites. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have hated the assembly of evildoers, And will not sit with the wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will wash my hands in innocence; So I will go about Your altar, O LORD, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That I may proclaim with the voice of thanksgiving, And tell of all Your wondrous works. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, I have loved the habitation of Your house, And the place where Your glory dwells. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not gather my soul with sinners, Nor my life with bloodthirsty men,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In whose hands is a sinister scheme, And whose right hand is full of bribes. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But as for me, I will walk in my integrity; Redeem me and be merciful to me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My foot stands in an even place; In the congregations I will bless the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 27 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is my light and my salvation; Whom shall I fear? The LORD is the strength of my life; Of whom shall I be afraid? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the wicked came against me To eat up my flesh, My enemies and foes, They stumbled and fell. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though an army may encamp against me, My heart shall not fear; Though war may rise against me, In this I will be confident. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 One thing I have desired of the LORD, That will I seek: That I may dwell in the house of the LORD All the days of my life, To behold the beauty of the LORD, And to inquire in His temple. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For in the time of trouble He shall hide me in His pavilion; In the secret place of His tabernacle He shall hide me; He shall set me high upon a rock. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And now my head shall be lifted up above my enemies all around me; Therefore I will offer sacrifices of joy in His tabernacle; I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice! Have mercy also upon me, and answer me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When You said, "Seek My face," My heart said to You, "Your face, LORD, I will seek." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not hide Your face from me; Do not turn Your servant away in anger; You have been my help; Do not leave me nor forsake me, O God of my salvation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When my father and my mother forsake me, Then the LORD will take care of me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Teach me Your way, O LORD, And lead me in a smooth path, because of my 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not deliver me to the will of my adversaries; For false witnesses have risen against me, And such as breathe out violence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I would have lost heart, unless I had believed That I would see the goodness of the LORD In the land of the living. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wait on the LORD; Be of good courage, And He shall strengthen your heart; Wait, I say, on the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 28 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To You I will cry, O LORD my Rock: Do not be silent to me, Lest, if You are silent to me, I become like those who go down to the pit. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear the voice of my supplications When I cry to You, When I lift up my hands toward Your holy sanctuary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not take me away with the wicked And with the workers of iniquity, Who speak peace to their neighbors, But evil is in their hearts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give them according to their deeds, And according to the wickedness of their endeavors; Give them according to the work of their hands; Render to them what they deserve. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because they do not regard the works of the LORD, Nor the operation of His hands, He shall destroy them And not build them up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the LORD, Because He has heard the voice of my supplications!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is my strength and my shield; My heart trusted in Him, and I am helped; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Therefore my heart greatly rejoices, And with my song I will praise Him. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is their strength, And He is the saving refuge of His anointed. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Save Your people, And bless Your inheritance; Shepherd them also, And bear them up forever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 29 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give unto the LORD, O you mighty ones, Give unto the LORD glory and strength. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give unto the LORD the glory due to His name; Worship the LORD in the beauty of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 holiness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The voice of the LORD is over the waters; The God of glory thunders; The LORD is over many waters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The voice of the LORD is powerful; The voice of the LORD is full of majesty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The voice of the LORD breaks the cedars, Yes, the LORD splinters the cedars of Lebanon. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He makes them also skip like a calf, Lebanon and Sirion like a young wild ox. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The voice of the LORD divides the flames of fire. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The voice of the LORD shakes the wilderness; The LORD shakes the Wilderness of Kadesh. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The voice of the LORD makes the deer give birth, And strips the forests bare; And in His temple everyone says, "Glory!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD sat enthroned at the Flood, And the LORD sits as King forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will give strength to His people; The LORD will bless His people with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 peace. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 30 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will extol You, O LORD, for You have lifted me up, And have not let my foes rejoice over me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD my God, I cried out to You, And You healed me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, You brought my soul up from the grave; You have kept me alive, that I 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 should not go down to the pit. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing praise to the LORD, you saints of His, And give thanks at the remembrance of His holy name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For His anger is but for a moment, His favor is for life; Weeping may endure for a night, But joy comes in the morning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now in my prosperity I said, "I shall never be moved."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, by Your favor You have made my mountain stand strong; You hid Your face, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and I was troubled.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I cried out to You, O LORD; And to the LORD I made supplication: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "What profit is there in my blood, When I go down to the pit? Will the dust praise You? Will it declare Your truth? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear, O LORD, and have mercy on me; LORD, be my helper!"\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have turned for me my mourning into dancing; You have put off my sackcloth 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and clothed me with gladness, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To the end that my glory may sing praise to You and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks to You forever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 31 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In You, O LORD, I put my trust; Let me never be ashamed; Deliver me in Your righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bow down Your ear to me, Deliver me speedily; Be my rock of refuge, A fortress of defense to save me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You are my rock and my fortress; Therefore, for Your name's sake, Lead me and guide me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Pull me out of the net which they have secretly laid for me, For You are my strength. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Into Your hand I commit my spirit; You have redeemed me, O LORD God of truth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have hated those who regard useless idols; But I trust in the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will be glad and rejoice in Your mercy, For You have considered my trouble; You have known my soul in adversities, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy; You have set my feet in a wide place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have mercy on me, O LORD, for I am in trouble; My eye wastes away with grief, Yes, my soul and my body! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For my life is spent with grief, And my years with sighing; My strength fails because of my iniquity, And my bones waste away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am a reproach among all my enemies, But especially among my neighbors, And am repulsive to my acquaintances; Those who see me outside flee from me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am forgotten like a dead man, out of mind; I am like a broken vessel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I hear the slander of many; Fear is on every side; While they take counsel together against me, They scheme to take away my life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But as for me, I trust in You, O LORD; I say, "You are my God."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My times are in Your hand; Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, And from 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 those who persecute me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make Your face shine upon Your servant; Save me for Your mercies' sake. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not let me be ashamed, O LORD, for I have called upon You; Let the wicked be ashamed; Let them be silent in the grave. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the lying lips be put to silence, Which speak insolent things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, how great is Your goodness, Which You have laid up for those who fear You, Which You have prepared for those who trust in You In the presence of the sons of men! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall hide them in the secret place of Your presence From the plots of man; You shall keep them secretly in a pavilion From the strife of tongues. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the LORD, For He has shown me His marvelous kindness in a strong city! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I said in my haste, "I am cut off from before Your eyes"; Nevertheless You heard the voice of my supplications When I cried out to You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, love the LORD, all you His saints! For the LORD preserves the faithful, And fully repays the proud person. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be of good courage, And He shall strengthen your heart, All you who hope in the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 32 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, Whose sin is covered. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is the man to whom the LORD does not impute iniquity, And in whose spirit there is no deceit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I kept silent, my bones grew old Through my groaning all the day long.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For day and night Your hand was heavy upon me; My vitality was turned into the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 drought of summer.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I acknowledged my sin to You, And my iniquity I have not hidden. I said, "I will confess my transgressions to the LORD," And You forgave the iniquity of my sin.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this cause everyone who is godly shall pray to You In a time when You may be found; Surely in a flood of great waters They shall not come near him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are my hiding place; You shall preserve me from trouble; You shall surround me with songs of deliverance.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go; I will guide you with My eye. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not be like the horse or like the mule, Which have no understanding, Which must be harnessed with bit and bridle, Else they will not come near you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Many sorrows shall be to the wicked; But he who trusts in the LORD, mercy shall surround him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be glad in the LORD and rejoice, you righteous; And shout for joy, all you upright in heart! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 33 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rejoice in the LORD, O you righteous! For praise from the upright is beautiful. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD with the harp; Make melody to Him with an instrument of ten 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 strings.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing to Him a new song; Play skillfully with a shout of joy.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the word of the LORD is right, And all His work is done in truth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He loves righteousness and justice; The earth is full of the goodness of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By the word of the LORD the heavens were made, And all the host of them by the breath of His mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap; He lays up the deep in storehouses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let all the earth fear the LORD; Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He spoke, and it was done; He commanded, and it stood fast.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD brings the counsel of the nations to nothing; He makes the plans of the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 peoples of no effect.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The counsel of the LORD stands forever, The plans of His heart to all generations. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD, The people He has chosen as His own inheritance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD looks from heaven; He sees all the sons of men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From the place of His dwelling He looks On all the inhabitants of the earth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He fashions their hearts individually; He considers all their works. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 No king is saved by the multitude of an army; A mighty man is not delivered by great strength. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A horse is a vain hope for safety; Neither shall it deliver any by its great strength. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, the eye of the LORD is on those who fear Him, On those who hope in His 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 mercy,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To deliver their soul from death, And to keep them alive in famine.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our soul waits for the LORD; He is our help and our shield.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For our heart shall rejoice in Him, Because we have trusted in His holy name. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Your mercy, O LORD, be upon us, Just as we hope in You. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 34 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will bless the LORD at all times; His praise shall continually be in my mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul shall make its boast in the LORD; The humble shall hear of it and be glad. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, magnify the LORD with me, And let us exalt His name together. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I sought the LORD, and He heard me, And delivered me from all my fears. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They looked to Him and were radiant, And their faces were not ashamed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This poor man cried out, and the LORD heard him, And saved him out of all his troubles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The angel of the LORD encamps all around those who fear Him, And delivers them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, taste and see that the LORD is good; Blessed is the man who trusts in Him! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, fear the LORD, you His saints! There is no want to those who fear Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The young lions lack and suffer hunger; But those who seek the LORD shall not lack any good thing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Come, you children, listen to me; I will teach you the fear of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who is the man who desires life, And loves many days, that he may see good? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Keep your tongue from evil, And your lips from speaking deceit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Depart from evil and do good; Seek peace and pursue it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The eyes of the LORD are on the righteous, And His ears are open to their cry. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The face of the LORD is against those who do evil, To cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous cry out, and the LORD hears, And delivers them out of all their troubles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is near to those who have a broken heart, And saves such as have a contrite spirit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Many are the afflictions of the righteous, But the LORD delivers him out of them all. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He guards all his bones; Not one of them is broken. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Evil shall slay the wicked, And those who hate the righteous shall be condemned. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD redeems the soul of His servants, And none of those who trust in Him shall be condemned. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 35 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Plead my cause, O LORD, with those who strive with me; Fight against those who fight against me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Take hold of shield and buckler, And stand up for my help.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also draw out the spear, And stop those who pursue me. Say to my soul, "I am your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 salvation." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let those be put to shame and brought to dishonor Who seek after my life; Let those be turned back and brought to confusion Who plot my hurt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be like chaff before the wind, And let the angel of the LORD chase them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let their way be dark and slippery, And let the angel of the LORD pursue them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For without cause they have hidden their net for me in a pit, Which they have dug without cause for my life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let destruction come upon him unexpectedly, And let his net that he has hidden catch himself; Into that very destruction let him fall. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD; It shall rejoice in His salvation.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All my bones shall say, "LORD, who is like You, Delivering the poor from him who is 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 too strong for him, Yes, the poor and the needy from him who plunders him?" 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Fierce witnesses rise up; They ask me things that I do not know. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They reward me evil for good, To the sorrow of my soul.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But as for me, when they were sick, My clothing was sackcloth; I humbled myself 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 with fasting; And my prayer would return to my own heart. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I paced about as though he were my friend or brother; I bowed down heavily, as one who mourns for his mother. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But in my adversity they rejoiced And gathered together; Attackers gathered against me, And I did not know it; They tore at me and did not cease; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With ungodly mockers at feasts They gnashed at me with their teeth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lord, how long will You look on? Rescue me from their destructions, My precious 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 life from the lions.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will give You thanks in the great assembly; I will praise You among many people. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them not rejoice over me who are wrongfully my enemies; Nor let them wink with the eye who hate me without a cause. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they do not speak peace, But they devise deceitful matters Against the quiet ones in the land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They also opened their mouth wide against me, And said, "Aha, aha! Our eyes have seen it." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This You have seen, O LORD; Do not keep silence. O Lord, do not be far from me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Stir up Yourself, and awake to my vindication, To my cause, my God and my Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Vindicate me, O LORD my God, according to Your righteousness; And let them not rejoice over me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them not say in their hearts, "Ah, so we would have it!" Let them not say, "We have swallowed him up." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be ashamed and brought to mutual confusion Who rejoice at my hurt; Let them be clothed with shame and dishonor Who exalt themselves against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them shout for joy and be glad, Who favor my righteous cause; And let them say continually, "Let the LORD be magnified, Who has pleasure in the prosperity of His servant." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And my tongue shall speak of Your righteousness And of Your praise all the day long. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 36 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 An oracle within my heart concerning the transgression of the wicked: There is no fear of God before his eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he flatters himself in his own eyes, When he finds out his iniquity and when he hates. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The words of his mouth are wickedness and deceit; He has ceased to be wise and to do good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He devises wickedness on his bed; He sets himself in a way that is not good; He does not abhor evil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your mercy, O LORD, is in the heavens; Your faithfulness reaches to the clouds. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your righteousness is like the great mountains; Your judgments are a great deep; O 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 LORD, You preserve man and beast. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How precious is Your lovingkindness, O God! Therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of Your wings. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are abundantly satisfied with the fullness of Your house, And You give them drink from the river of Your pleasures. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For with You is the fountain of life; In Your light we see light.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, continue Your lovingkindness to those who know You, And Your righteousness 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 to the upright in heart. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let not the foot of pride come against me, And let not the hand of the wicked drive me away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There the workers of iniquity have fallen; They have been cast down and are not able to rise. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 37 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not fret because of evildoers, Nor be envious of the workers of iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, And wither as the green herb. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Trust in the LORD, and do good; Dwell in the land, and feed on His faithfulness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Delight yourself also in the LORD, And He shall give you the desires of your heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Commit your way to the LORD, Trust also in Him, And He shall bring it to pass. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall bring forth your righteousness as the light, And your justice as the noonday. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for Him; Do not fret because of him who prospers in his way, Because of the man who brings wicked schemes to pass. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Cease from anger, and forsake wrath; Do not fret--it only causes harm.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For evildoers shall be cut off; But those who wait on the LORD, They shall inherit the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 earth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For yet a little while and the wicked shall be no more; Indeed, you will look carefully for his place, But it shall be no more. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the meek shall inherit the earth, And shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked plots against the just, And gnashes at him with his teeth. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The Lord laughs at him, For He sees that his day is coming. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked have drawn the sword And have bent their bow, To cast down the poor and needy, To slay those who are of upright conduct. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their sword shall enter their own heart, And their bows shall be broken.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A little that a righteous man has Is better than the riches of many wicked.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, But the LORD upholds the righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD knows the days of the upright, And their inheritance shall be forever. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They shall not be ashamed in the evil time, And in the days of famine they shall be 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 satisfied. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the wicked shall perish; And the enemies of the LORD, Like the splendor of the meadows, shall vanish. Into smoke they shall vanish away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked borrows and does not repay, But the righteous shows mercy and gives. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For those blessed by Him shall inherit the earth, But those cursed by Him shall be 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 cut off.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The steps of a good man are ordered by the LORD, And He delights in his way. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down; For the LORD upholds him with His hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have been young, and now am old; Yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, Nor his descendants begging bread. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He is ever merciful, and lends; And his descendants are blessed. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Depart from evil, and do good; And dwell forevermore. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD loves justice, And does not forsake His saints; They are preserved forever, But the descendants of the wicked shall be cut off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous shall inherit the land, And dwell in it forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom, And his tongue talks of justice. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The law of his God is in his heart; None of his steps shall slide.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked watches the righteous, And seeks to slay him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will not leave him in his hand, Nor condemn him when he is judged. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wait on the LORD, And keep His way, And He shall exalt you to inherit the land; When the wicked are cut off, you shall see it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have seen the wicked in great power, And spreading himself like a native green tree. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet he passed away, and behold, he was no more; Indeed I sought him, but he could not be found. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Mark the blameless man, and observe the upright; For the future of that man is peace. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the transgressors shall be destroyed together; The future of the wicked shall be cut off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the salvation of the righteous is from the LORD; He is their strength in the time of trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the LORD shall help them and deliver them; He shall deliver them from the wicked, And save them, Because they trust in Him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 38 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, do not rebuke me in Your wrath, Nor chasten me in Your hot displeasure! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Your arrows pierce me deeply, And Your hand presses me down. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is no soundness in my flesh Because of Your anger, Nor any health in my bones Because of my sin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For my iniquities have gone over my head; Like a heavy burden they are too heavy for me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My wounds are foul and festering Because of my foolishness.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am troubled, I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day long. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For my loins are full of inflammation, And there is no soundness in my flesh. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am feeble and severely broken; I groan because of the turmoil of my heart. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lord, all my desire is before You; And my sighing is not hidden from You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My heart pants, my strength fails me; As for the light of my eyes, it also has gone from me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My loved ones and my friends stand aloof from my plague, And my relatives stand afar off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those also who seek my life lay snares for me; Those who seek my hurt speak of destruction, And plan deception all the day long. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I, like a deaf man, do not hear; And I am like a mute who does not open his mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Thus I am like a man who does not hear, And in whose mouth is no response. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For in You, O LORD, I hope; You will hear, O Lord my God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I said, "Hear me, lest they rejoice over me, Lest, when my foot slips, they exalt themselves against me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I am ready to fall, And my sorrow is continually before me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I will declare my iniquity; I will be in anguish over my sin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But my enemies are vigorous, and they are strong; And those who hate me wrongfully have multiplied. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those also who render evil for good, They are my adversaries, because I follow what is good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not forsake me, O LORD; O my God, be not far from me! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 39 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I said, "I will guard my ways, Lest I sin with my tongue; I will restrain my mouth with a muzzle, While the wicked are before me." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was mute with silence, I held my peace even from good; And my sorrow was stirred up. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My heart was hot within me; While I was musing, the fire burned. Then I spoke with my tongue: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "LORD, make me to know my end, And what is the measure of my days, That I may know how frail I am. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed, You have made my days as handbreadths, And my age is as nothing before You; Certainly every man at his best state is but vapor.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely every man walks about like a shadow; Surely they busy themselves in vain; He heaps up riches, And does not know who will gather them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "And now, Lord, what do I wait for? My hope is in You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver me from all my transgressions; Do not make me the reproach of the foolish. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was mute, I did not open my mouth, Because it was You who did it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remove Your plague from me; I am consumed by the blow of Your hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When with rebukes You correct man for iniquity, You make his beauty melt away like a moth; Surely every man is vapor.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Hear my prayer, O LORD, And give ear to my cry; Do not be silent at my tears; For I am a stranger with You, A sojourner, as all my fathers were. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remove Your gaze from me, that I may regain strength, Before I go away and am no more." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 40 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I waited patiently for the LORD; And He inclined to me, And heard my cry.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also brought me up out of a horrible pit, Out of the miry clay, And set my feet 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 upon a rock, And established my steps. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has put a new song in my mouth-- Praise to our God; Many will see it and fear, And will trust in the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is that man who makes the LORD his trust, And does not respect the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Many, O LORD my God, are Your wonderful works Which You have done; And Your thoughts toward us Cannot be recounted to You in order; If I would declare and speak of them, They are more than can be numbered. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sacrifice and offering You did not desire; My ears You have opened. Burnt offering and sin offering You did not require. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I said, "Behold, I come; In the scroll of the book it is written of me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I delight to do Your will, O my God, And Your law is within my heart." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have proclaimed the good news of righteousness In the great assembly; Indeed, I do not restrain my lips, O LORD, You Yourself know. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have not hidden Your righteousness within my heart; I have declared Your faithfulness and Your salvation; I have not concealed Your lovingkindness and Your truth From the great assembly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not withhold Your tender mercies from me, O LORD; Let Your lovingkindness and Your truth continually preserve me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For innumerable evils have surrounded me; My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up; They are more than the hairs of my head; Therefore my heart fails me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me; O LORD, make haste to help me!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be ashamed and brought to mutual confusion Who seek to destroy my life; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Let them be driven backward and brought to dishonor Who wish me evil.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be confounded because of their shame, Who say to me, "Aha, aha!" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let all those who seek You rejoice and be glad in You; Let such as love Your salvation say continually, "The LORD be magnified!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I am poor and needy; Yet the LORD thinks upon me. You are my help and my deliverer; Do not delay, O my God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 41 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is he who considers the poor; The LORD will deliver him in time of trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will preserve him and keep him alive, And he will be blessed on the earth; You will not deliver him to the will of his enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will strengthen him on his bed of illness; You will sustain him on his sickbed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I said, "LORD, be merciful to me; Heal my soul, for I have sinned against You." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My enemies speak evil of me: "When will he die, and his name perish?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And if he comes to see me, he speaks lies; His heart gathers iniquity to itself; When he goes out, he tells it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All who hate me whisper together against me; Against me they devise my hurt.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "An evil disease," they say, "clings to him. And now that he lies down, he will rise up 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 no more." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even my own familiar friend in whom I trusted, Who ate my bread, Has lifted up his heel against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You, O LORD, be merciful to me, and raise me up, That I may repay them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By this I know that You are well pleased with me, Because my enemy does not 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 triumph over me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for me, You uphold me in my integrity, And set me before Your face forever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel From everlasting to everlasting! Amen and Amen. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 42 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As the deer pants for the water brooks, So pants my soul for You, O God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 God? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My tears have been my food day and night, While they continually say to me, "Where is your God?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I remember these things, I pour out my soul within me. For I used to go with the multitude; I went with them to the house of God, With the voice of joy and praise, With a multitude that kept a pilgrim feast. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God, for I shall yet praise Him For the help of His countenance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O my God, my soul is cast down within me; Therefore I will remember You from the land of the Jordan, And from the heights of Hermon, From the Hill Mizar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deep calls unto deep at the noise of Your waterfalls; All Your waves and billows have gone over me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will command His lovingkindness in the daytime, And in the night His song shall be with me-- A prayer to the God of my life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will say to God my Rock, "Why have You forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As with a breaking of my bones, My enemies reproach me, While they say to me all day long, "Where is your God?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God; For I shall yet praise Him, The help of my countenance and my God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 43 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Vindicate me, O God, And plead my cause against an ungodly nation; Oh, deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You are the God of my strength; Why do You cast me off? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, send out Your light and Your truth! Let them lead me; Let them bring me to Your holy hill And to Your tabernacle. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I will go to the altar of God, To God my exceeding joy; And on the harp I will praise You, O God, my God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you disquieted within me? Hope in God; For I shall yet praise Him, The help of my countenance and my God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 44 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We have heard with our ears, O God, Our fathers have told us, The deeds You did in their days, In days of old: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You drove out the nations with Your hand, But them You planted; You afflicted the peoples, and cast them out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they did not gain possession of the land by their own sword, Nor did their own arm save them; But it was Your right hand, Your arm, and the light of Your countenance, Because You favored them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are my King, O God; Command victories for Jacob.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Through You we will push down our enemies; Through Your name we will trample 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 those who rise up against us.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I will not trust in my bow, Nor shall my sword save me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You have saved us from our enemies, And have put to shame those who hated us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In God we boast all day long, And praise Your name forever.Selah\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You have cast us off and put us to shame, And You do not go out with our 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 armies. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You make us turn back from the enemy, And those who hate us have taken spoil for themselves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have given us up like sheep intended for food, And have scattered us among the nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You sell Your people for next to nothing, And are not enriched by selling them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You make us a reproach to our neighbors, A scorn and a derision to those all 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 around us. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You make us a byword among the nations, A shaking of the head among the peoples. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My dishonor is continually before me, And the shame of my face has covered me, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because of the voice of him who reproaches and reviles, Because of the enemy 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and the avenger. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All this has come upon us; But we have not forgotten You, Nor have we dealt falsely with Your covenant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our heart has not turned back, Nor have our steps departed from Your way;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You have severely broken us in the place of jackals, And covered us with the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 shadow of death. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If we had forgotten the name of our God, Or stretched out our hands to a foreign god, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Would not God search this out? For He knows the secrets of the heart.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet for Your sake we are killed all day long; We are accounted as sheep for the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 slaughter.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Awake! Why do You sleep, O Lord? Arise! Do not cast us off forever. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do You hide Your face, And forget our affliction and our oppression? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For our soul is bowed down to the dust; Our body clings to the ground. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Arise for our help, And redeem us for Your mercies' sake. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 45 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My heart is overflowing with a good theme; I recite my composition concerning the King; My tongue is the pen of a ready writer. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are fairer than the sons of men; Grace is poured upon Your lips; Therefore God has blessed You forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Gird Your sword upon Your thigh, O Mighty One, With Your glory and Your majesty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And in Your majesty ride prosperously because of truth, humility, and righteousness; And Your right hand shall teach You awesome things. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your arrows are sharp in the heart of the King's enemies; The peoples fall under You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your throne, O God, is forever and ever; A scepter of righteousness is the scepter of Your kingdom. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You love righteousness and hate wickedness; Therefore God, Your God, has anointed You With the oil of gladness more than Your companions. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All Your garments are scented with myrrh and aloes and cassia, Out of the ivory palaces, by which they have made You glad. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Kings' daughters are among Your honorable women; At Your right hand stands the queen in gold from Ophir. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Listen, O daughter, Consider and incline your ear; Forget your own people also, and your father's house; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the King will greatly desire your beauty; Because He is your Lord, worship Him. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the daughter of Tyre will come with a gift; The rich among the people will seek 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 your favor.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The royal daughter is all glorious within the palace; Her clothing is woven with gold. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She shall be brought to the King in robes of many colors; The virgins, her companions who follow her, shall be brought to You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With gladness and rejoicing they shall be brought; They shall enter the King's palace. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Instead of Your fathers shall be Your sons, Whom You shall make princes in all the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will make Your name to be remembered in all generations; Therefore the people shall praise You forever and ever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 46 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God is our refuge and strength, A very present help in trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore we will not fear, Even though the earth be removed, And though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though its waters roar and be troubled, Though the mountains shake with its swelling.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is a river whose streams shall make glad the city of God, The holy place of the tabernacle of the Most High. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved; God shall help her, just at the break of dawn. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The nations raged, the kingdoms were moved; He uttered His voice, the earth melted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our refuge.Selah\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Come, behold the works of the LORD, Who has made desolations in the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He makes wars cease to the end of the earth; He breaks the bow and cuts the spear in two; He burns the chariot in the fire. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be still, and know that I am God; I will be exalted among the nations, I will be exalted in the earth! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD of hosts is with us; The God of Jacob is our refuge.Selah 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 47 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, clap your hands, all you peoples! Shout to God with the voice of triumph!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD Most High is awesome; He is a great King over all the earth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will subdue the peoples under us, And the nations under our feet.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will choose our inheritance for us, The excellence of Jacob whom He loves.Selah 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God has gone up with a shout, The LORD with the sound of a trumpet. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing praises to God, sing praises! Sing praises to our King, sing praises! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For God is the King of all the earth; Sing praises with understanding. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God reigns over the nations; God sits on His holy throne. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The princes of the people have gathered together, The people of the God of Abraham. For the shields of the earth belong to God; He is greatly exalted. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 48 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised In the city of our God, In His holy mountain. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Beautiful in elevation, The joy of the whole earth, Is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, The city of the great King. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God is in her palaces; He is known as her refuge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For behold, the kings assembled, They passed by together. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They saw it, and so they marveled; They were troubled, they hastened away. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Fear took hold of them there, And pain, as of a woman in birth pangs, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As when You break the ships of Tarshish With an east wind. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As we have heard, So we have seen In the city of the LORD of hosts, In the city of our God: God will establish it forever.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We have thought, O God, on Your lovingkindness, In the midst of Your temple. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 According to Your name, O God, So is Your praise to the ends of the earth; Your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 right hand is full of righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Mount Zion rejoice, Let the daughters of Judah be glad, Because of Your judgments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Walk about Zion, And go all around her. Count her towers; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Mark well her bulwarks; Consider her palaces; That you may tell it to the generation following. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this is God, Our God forever and ever; He will be our guide Even to death. 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 49 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear this, all peoples; Give ear, all inhabitants of the world, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Both low and high, Rich and poor together. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My mouth shall speak wisdom, And the meditation of my heart shall give understanding. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will incline my ear to a proverb; I will disclose my dark saying on the harp. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why should I fear in the days of evil, When the iniquity at my heels surrounds me? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who trust in their wealth And boast in the multitude of their riches, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 None of them can by any means redeem his brother, Nor give to God a ransom for him-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the redemption of their souls is costly, And it shall cease forever-- 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That he should continue to live eternally, And not see the Pit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For he sees wise men die; Likewise the fool and the senseless person perish, And leave their wealth to others. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their inner thought is that their houses will last forever, Their dwelling places to all generations; They call their lands after their own names. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless man, though in honor, does not remain; He is like the beasts that perish. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This is the way of those who are foolish, And of their posterity who approve their sayings.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like sheep they are laid in the grave; Death shall feed on them; The upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; And their beauty shall be consumed in the grave, far from their dwelling. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave, For He shall receive me.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not be afraid when one becomes rich, When the glory of his house is increased; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For when he dies he shall carry nothing away; His glory shall not descend after him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though while he lives he blesses himself (For men will praise you when you do well for yourself), 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall go to the generation of his fathers; They shall never see light.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A man who is in honor, yet does not understand, Is like the beasts that perish. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 50 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The Mighty One, God the LORD, Has spoken and called the earth From the rising of the sun to its going down. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God will shine forth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our God shall come, and shall not keep silent; A fire shall devour before Him, And it 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 shall be very tempestuous all around Him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall call to the heavens from above, And to the earth, that He may judge His people: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Gather My saints together to Me, Those who have made a covenant with Me by sacrifice." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the heavens declare His righteousness, For God Himself is Judge.Selah\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Hear, O My people, and I will speak, O Israel, and I will testify against you; I am 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 God, your God! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will not rebuke you for your sacrifices Or your burnt offerings, Which are continually before Me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will not take a bull from your house, Nor goats out of your folds.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For every beast of the forest is Mine, And the cattle on a thousand hills. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I know all the birds of the mountains, And the wild beasts of the field are Mine. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If I were hungry, I would not tell you; For the world is Mine, and all its fullness. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will I eat the flesh of bulls, Or drink the blood of goats?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Offer to God thanksgiving, And pay your vows to the Most High. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Call upon Me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify Me."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But to the wicked God says: "What right have you to declare My statutes, Or take 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 My covenant in your mouth,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Seeing you hate instruction And cast My words behind you? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When you saw a thief, you consented with him, And have been a partaker with adulterers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You give your mouth to evil, And your tongue frames deceit.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You sit and speak against your brother; You slander your own mother's son. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 These things you have done, and I kept silent; You thought that I was altogether like you; But I will rebuke you, And set them in order before your eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Now consider this, you who forget God, Lest I tear you in pieces, And there be none to deliver: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever offers praise glorifies Me; And to him who orders his conduct aright I will show the salvation of God." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 51 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have mercy upon me, O God, According to Your lovingkindness; According to the multitude of Your tender mercies, Blot out my transgressions. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, And cleanse me from my sin. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I acknowledge my transgressions, And my sin is always before me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Against You, You only, have I sinned, And done this evil in Your sight-- That You may be found just when You speak, And blameless when You judge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, And in sin my mother conceived me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, You desire truth in the inward parts, And in the hidden part You will make 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 me to know wisdom. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean; Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make me hear joy and gladness, That the bones You have broken may rejoice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hide Your face from my sins, And blot out all my iniquities. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Create in me a clean heart, O God, And renew a steadfast spirit within me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not cast me away from Your presence, And do not take Your Holy Spirit from me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Restore to me the joy of Your salvation, And uphold me by Your generous Spirit. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I will teach transgressors Your ways, And sinners shall be converted to You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, The God of my salvation, And my tongue shall sing aloud of Your righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O Lord, open my lips, And my mouth shall show forth Your praise.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You do not desire sacrifice, or else I would give it; You do not delight in burnt 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 offering. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, A broken and a contrite heart-- These, O God, You will not despise. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do good in Your good pleasure to Zion; Build the walls of Jerusalem.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then You shall be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, With burnt offering 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and whole burnt offering; Then they shall offer bulls on Your altar. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 52 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do you boast in evil, O mighty man? The goodness of God endures continually. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your tongue devises destruction, Like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You love evil more than good, Lying rather than speaking righteousness.Selah\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You love all devouring words, You deceitful tongue. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God shall likewise destroy you forever; He shall take you away, and pluck you out of your dwelling place, And uproot you from the land of the living.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous also shall see and fear, And shall laugh at him, saying,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Here is the man who did not make God his strength, But trusted in the abundance 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of his riches, And strengthened himself in his wickedness." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God; I trust in the mercy of God forever and ever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise You forever, Because You have done it; And in the presence of Your saints I will wait on Your name, for it is good. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 53 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fool has said in his heart, "There is no God." They are corrupt, and have done abominable iniquity; There is none who does good. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God looks down from heaven upon the children of men, To see if there are any who understand, who seek God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Every one of them has turned aside; They have together become corrupt; There is none who does good, No, not one. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge, Who eat up my people as they eat bread, And do not call upon God? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There they are in great fear Where no fear was, For God has scattered the bones of him who encamps against you; You have put them to shame, Because God has despised them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that the salvation of Israel would come out of Zion! When God brings back the captivity of His people, Let Jacob rejoice and Israel be glad. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 54 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Save me, O God, by Your name, And vindicate me by Your strength. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear my prayer, O God; Give ear to the words of my mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For strangers have risen up against me, And oppressors have sought after my life; They have not set God before them.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, God is my helper; The Lord is with those who uphold my life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will repay my enemies for their evil. Cut them off in Your truth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will freely sacrifice to You; I will praise Your name, O LORD, for it is good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He has delivered me out of all trouble; And my eye has seen its desire upon my enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 55 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give ear to my prayer, O God, And do not hide Yourself from my supplication. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Attend to me, and hear me; I am restless in my complaint, and moan noisily, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because of the voice of the enemy, Because of the oppression of the wicked; For they bring down trouble upon me, And in wrath they hate me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My heart is severely pained within me, And the terrors of death have fallen upon me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Fearfulness and trembling have come upon me, And horror has overwhelmed me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I said, "Oh, that I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and be at rest.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed, I would wander far off, And remain in the wilderness.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I would hasten my escape From the windy storm and tempest." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues, For I have seen violence and strife in the city. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Day and night they go around it on its walls; Iniquity and trouble are also in the midst of it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Destruction is in its midst; Oppression and deceit do not depart from its streets. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For it is not an enemy who reproaches me; Then I could bear it. Nor is it one who 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 hates me who has exalted himself against me; Then I could hide from him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But it was you, a man my equal, My companion and my acquaintance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We took sweet counsel together, And walked to the house of God in the throng. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let death seize them; Let them go down alive into hell, For wickedness is in their dwellings and among them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for me, I will call upon God, And the LORD shall save me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Evening and morning and at noon I will pray, and cry aloud, And He shall hear my 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 voice. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, For there were many against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God will hear, and afflict them, Even He who abides from of old.Selah Because they do not change, Therefore they do not fear God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has put forth his hands against those who were at peace with him; He has broken his covenant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, But war was in his heart; His words were softer than oil, Yet they were drawn swords. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Cast your burden on the LORD, And He shall sustain you; He shall never permit the righteous to be moved. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You, O God, shall bring them down to the pit of destruction; Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; But I will trust in You. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 56 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be merciful to me, O God, for man would swallow me up; Fighting all day he oppresses me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My enemies would hound me all day, For there are many who fight against me, O Most High. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whenever I am afraid, I will trust in You.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In God (I will praise His word), In God I have put my trust; I will not fear. What can 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 flesh do to me?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All day they twist my words; All their thoughts are against me for evil. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They gather together, They hide, they mark my steps, When they lie in wait for my life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Shall they escape by iniquity? In anger cast down the peoples, O God!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You number my wanderings; Put my tears into Your bottle; Are they not in Your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 book? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I cry out to You, Then my enemies will turn back; This I know, because God is for me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In God (I will praise His word), In the LORD (I will praise His word), 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In God I have put my trust; I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Vows made to You are binding upon me, O God; I will render praises to You, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You have delivered my soul from death. Have You not kept my feet from falling, That I may walk before God In the light of the living? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 57 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be merciful to me, O God, be merciful to me! For my soul trusts in You; And in the shadow of Your wings I will make my refuge, Until these calamities have passed by. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will cry out to God Most High, To God who performs all things for me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall send from heaven and save me; He reproaches the one who would swallow me up.Selah God shall send forth His mercy and His truth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul is among lions; I lie among the sons of men Who are set on fire, Whose teeth are spears and arrows, And their tongue a sharp sword. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; Let Your glory be above all the earth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have prepared a net for my steps; My soul is bowed down; They have dug a pit 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 before me; Into the midst of it they themselves have fallen.Selah\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My heart is steadfast, O God, my heart is steadfast; I will sing and give praise. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Awake, my glory! Awake, lute and harp! I will awaken the dawn.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise You, O Lord, among the peoples; I will sing to You among the nations. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Your mercy reaches unto the heavens, And Your truth unto the clouds.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens; Let Your glory be above all the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 58 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do you indeed speak righteousness, you silent ones? Do you judge uprightly, you sons of men? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 No, in heart you work wickedness; You weigh out the violence of your hands in the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked are estranged from the womb; They go astray as soon as they are born, speaking lies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their poison is like the poison of a serpent; They are like the deaf cobra that stops its ear, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Which will not heed the voice of charmers, Charming ever so skillfully. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Break their teeth in their mouth, O God! Break out the fangs of the young lions, O LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them flow away as waters which run continually; When he bends his bow, Let his arrows be as if cut in pieces. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be like a snail which melts away as it goes, Like a stillborn child of a woman, that they may not see the sun. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Before your pots can feel the burning thorns, He shall take them away as with a whirlwind, As in His living and burning wrath. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous shall rejoice when he sees the vengeance; He shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So that men will say, "Surely there is a reward for the righteous; Surely He is God who judges in the earth." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 59 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver me from my enemies, O my God; Defend me from those who rise up against me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, And save me from bloodthirsty men.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For look, they lie in wait for my life; The mighty gather against me, Not for my 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 transgression nor for my sin, O LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They run and prepare themselves through no fault of mine. Awake to help me, and behold! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, Awake to punish all the nations; Do not be merciful to any wicked transgressors.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At evening they return, They growl like a dog, And go all around the city.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed, they belch with their mouth; Swords are in their lips; For they say, "Who 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 hears?"\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You, O LORD, shall laugh at them; You shall have all the nations in derision. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will wait for You, O You his Strength; For God is my defense. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My God of mercy shall come to meet me; God shall let me see my desire on my enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not slay them, lest my people forget; Scatter them by Your power, And bring them down, O Lord our shield. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips, Let them even be taken in their pride, And for the cursing and lying which they speak. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Consume them in wrath, consume them, That they may not be; And let them know that God rules in Jacob To the ends of the earth.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And at evening they return, They growl like a dog, And go all around the city. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They wander up and down for food, And howl if they are not satisfied. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I will sing of Your power; Yes, I will sing aloud of Your mercy in the morning; For You have been my defense And refuge in the day of my trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To You, O my Strength, I will sing praises; For God is my defense, My God of mercy. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 60 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, You have cast us off; You have broken us down; You have been displeased; Oh, restore us again! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have made the earth tremble; You have broken it; Heal its breaches, for it is shaking. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have shown Your people hard things; You have made us drink the wine of confusion. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have given a banner to those who fear You, That it may be displayed because of the truth.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That Your beloved may be delivered, Save with Your right hand, and hear me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God has spoken in His holiness: "I will rejoice; I will divide Shechem And measure out the Valley of Succoth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Gilead is Mine, and Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is the helmet for My head; Judah is My lawgiver. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Moab is My washpot; Over Edom I will cast My shoe; Philistia, shout in triumph because of Me." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who will bring me to the strong city? Who will lead me to Edom?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is it not You, O God, who cast us off? And You, O God, who did not go out with our 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 armies?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give us help from trouble, For the help of man is useless.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Through God we will do valiantly, For it is He who shall tread down our enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 61 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear my cry, O God; Attend to my prayer.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From the end of the earth I will cry to You, When my heart is overwhelmed; Lead me 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 to the rock that is higher than I. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You have been a shelter for me, A strong tower from the enemy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will abide in Your tabernacle forever; I will trust in the shelter of Your wings.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You, O God, have heard my vows; You have given me the heritage of those who fear Your name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You will prolong the king's life, His years as many generations.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall abide before God forever. Oh, prepare mercy and truth, which may 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 preserve him!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I will sing praise to Your name forever, That I may daily perform my vows. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 62 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Truly my soul silently waits for God; From Him comes my salvation.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He only is my rock and my salvation; He is my defense; I shall not be greatly moved. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How long will you attack a man? You shall be slain, all of you, Like a leaning wall and a tottering fence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They only consult to cast him down from his high position; They delight in lies; They bless with their mouth, But they curse inwardly.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul, wait silently for God alone, For my expectation is from Him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He only is my rock and my salvation; He is my defense; I shall not be moved. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In God is my salvation and my glory; The rock of my strength, And my refuge, is in God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Trust in Him at all times, you people; Pour out your heart before Him; God is a refuge for us.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely men of low degree are a vapor, Men of high degree are a lie; If they are weighed on the scales, They are altogether lighter than vapor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not trust in oppression, Nor vainly hope in robbery; If riches increase, Do not set your heart on them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God has spoken once, Twice I have heard this: That power belongs to God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also to You, O Lord, belongs mercy; For You render to each one according to his 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 work. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 63 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, You are my God; Early will I seek You; My soul thirsts for You; My flesh longs for You In a dry and thirsty land Where there is no water. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I have looked for You in the sanctuary, To see Your power and Your glory. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because Your lovingkindness is better than life, My lips shall praise You. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Thus I will bless You while I live; I will lift up my hands in Your name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness, And my mouth shall praise You with joyful lips. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I remember You on my bed, I meditate on You in the night watches.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because You have been my help, Therefore in the shadow of Your wings I will 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 rejoice. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul follows close behind You; Your right hand upholds me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But those who seek my life, to destroy it, Shall go into the lower parts of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They shall fall by the sword; They shall be a portion for jackals. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the king shall rejoice in God; Everyone who swears by Him shall glory; But the mouth of those who speak lies shall be stopped. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 64 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear my voice, O God, in my meditation; Preserve my life from fear of the enemy. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hide me from the secret plots of the wicked, From the rebellion of the workers of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 iniquity, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who sharpen their tongue like a sword, And bend their bows to shoot their arrows-- bitter words, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That they may shoot in secret at the blameless; Suddenly they shoot at him and do not fear. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They encourage themselves in an evil matter; They talk of laying snares secretly; They say, "Who will see them?" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They devise iniquities: "We have perfected a shrewd scheme." Both the inward thought and the heart of man are deep. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; Suddenly they shall be wounded.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So He will make them stumble over their own tongue; All who see them shall flee 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 away. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All men shall fear, And shall declare the work of God; For they shall wisely consider His doing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and trust in Him. And all the upright in heart shall glory. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 65 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise is awaiting You, O God, in Zion; And to You the vow shall be performed. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O You who hear prayer, To You all flesh will come. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Iniquities prevail against me; As for our transgressions, You will provide atonement for them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is the man You choose, And cause to approach You, That he may dwell in Your courts. We shall be satisfied with the goodness of Your house, Of Your holy temple. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By awesome deeds in righteousness You will answer us, O God of our salvation, You who are the confidence of all the ends of the earth, And of the far-off seas; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who established the mountains by His strength, Being clothed with power;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You who still the noise of the seas, The noise of their waves, And the tumult of the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 peoples. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They also who dwell in the farthest parts are afraid of Your signs; You make the outgoings of the morning and evening rejoice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You visit the earth and water it, You greatly enrich it; The river of God is full of water; You provide their grain, For so You have prepared it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You water its ridges abundantly, You settle its furrows; You make it soft with showers, You bless its growth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You crown the year with Your goodness, And Your paths drip with abundance. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They drop on the pastures of the wilderness, And the little hills rejoice on every side. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The pastures are clothed with flocks; The valleys also are covered with grain; They shout for joy, they also sing. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 66 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make a joyful shout to God, all the earth!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing out the honor of His name; Make His praise glorious. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Say to God, "How awesome are Your works! Through the greatness of Your power Your enemies shall submit themselves to You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All the earth shall worship You And sing praises to You; They shall sing praises to Your name."Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Come and see the works of God; He is awesome in His doing toward the sons of men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He turned the sea into dry land; They went through the river on foot. There we will rejoice in Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He rules by His power forever; His eyes observe the nations; Do not let the rebellious exalt themselves.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, bless our God, you peoples! And make the voice of His praise to be heard, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who keeps our soul among the living, And does not allow our feet to be moved. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You, O God, have tested us; You have refined us as silver is refined. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You brought us into the net; You laid affliction on our backs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have caused men to ride over our heads; We went through fire and through water; But You brought us out to rich fulfillment. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will go into Your house with burnt offerings; I will pay You my vows,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Which my lips have uttered And my mouth has spoken when I was in trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will offer You burnt sacrifices of fat animals, With the sweet aroma of rams; I will offer bulls with goats.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Come and hear, all you who fear God, And I will declare what He has done for my soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I cried to Him with my mouth, And He was extolled with my tongue. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I regard iniquity in my heart, The Lord will not hear.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But certainly God has heard me; He has attended to the voice of my prayer. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be God, Who has not turned away my prayer, Nor His mercy from me! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 67 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God be merciful to us and bless us, And cause His face to shine upon us,Selah 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That Your way may be known on earth, Your salvation among all nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the peoples praise You, O God; Let all the peoples praise You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, let the nations be glad and sing for joy! For You shall judge the people righteously, And govern the nations on earth.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the peoples praise You, O God; Let all the peoples praise You.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the earth shall yield her increase; God, our own God, shall bless us. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God shall bless us, And all the ends of the earth shall fear Him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 68 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let God arise, Let His enemies be scattered; Let those also who hate Him flee before Him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As smoke is driven away, So drive them away; As wax melts before the fire, So let the wicked perish at the presence of God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But let the righteous be glad; Let them rejoice before God; Yes, let them rejoice exceedingly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing to God, sing praises to His name; Extol Him who rides on the clouds, By His name YAH, And rejoice before Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A father of the fatherless, a defender of widows, Is God in His holy habitation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God sets the solitary in families; He brings out those who are bound into prosperity; But the rebellious dwell in a dry land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, when You went out before Your people, When You marched through the wilderness,Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The earth shook; The heavens also dropped rain at the presence of God; Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You, O God, sent a plentiful rain, Whereby You confirmed Your inheritance, When it was weary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your congregation dwelt in it; You, O God, provided from Your goodness for the poor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The Lord gave the word; Great was the company of those who proclaimed it: 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Kings of armies flee, they flee, And she who remains at home divides the spoil. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though you lie down among the sheepfolds, You will be like the wings of a dove covered with silver, And her feathers with yellow gold." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the Almighty scattered kings in it, It was white as snow in Zalmon.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A mountain of God is the mountain of Bashan; A mountain of many peaks is the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 mountain of Bashan. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do you fume with envy, you mountains of many peaks? This is the mountain which God desires to dwell in; Yes, the LORD will dwell in it forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The chariots of God are twenty thousand, Even thousands of thousands; The Lord is among them as in Sinai, in the Holy Place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have ascended on high, You have led captivity captive; You have received gifts among men, Even from the rebellious, That the LORD God might dwell there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the Lord, Who daily loads us with benefits, The God of our salvation!Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our God is the God of salvation; And to GOD the Lord belong escapes from death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But God will wound the head of His enemies, The hairy scalp of the one who still goes on in his trespasses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The Lord said, "I will bring back from Bashan, I will bring them back from the depths of the sea, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That your foot may crush them in blood, And the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from your enemies." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have seen Your procession, O God, The procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after; Among them were the maidens playing timbrels. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bless God in the congregations, The Lord, from the fountain of Israel.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There is little Benjamin, their leader, The princes of Judah and their company, The 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 princes of Zebulun and the princes of Naphtali. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your God has commanded your strength; Strengthen, O God, what You have done for us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because of Your temple at Jerusalem, Kings will bring presents to You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rebuke the beasts of the reeds, The herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples, Till everyone submits himself with pieces of silver. Scatter the peoples who delight in war. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Envoys will come out of Egypt; Ethiopia will quickly stretch out her hands to God. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth; Oh, sing praises to the Lord,Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To Him who rides on the heaven of heavens, which were of old! Indeed, He sends out His voice, a mighty voice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Ascribe strength to God; His excellence is over Israel, And His strength is in the clouds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, You are more awesome than Your holy places. The God of Israel is He who gives strength and power to His people. Blessed be God! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 69 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Save me, O God! For the waters have come up to my neck.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I sink in deep mire, Where there is no standing; I have come into deep waters, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Where the floods overflow me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am weary with my crying; My throat is dry; My eyes fail while I wait for my God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who hate me without a cause Are more than the hairs of my head; They are mighty who would destroy me, Being my enemies wrongfully; Though I have stolen nothing, I still must restore it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, You know my foolishness; And my sins are not hidden from You.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let not those who wait for You, O Lord GOD of hosts, be ashamed because of me; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Let not those who seek You be confounded because of me, O God of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because for Your sake I have borne reproach; Shame has covered my face. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have become a stranger to my brothers, And an alien to my mother's children; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because zeal for Your house has eaten me up, And the reproaches of those who reproach You have fallen on me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I wept and chastened my soul with fasting, That became my reproach. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I also made sackcloth my garment; I became a byword to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who sit in the gate speak against me, And I am the song of the drunkards. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But as for me, my prayer is to You, O LORD, in the acceptable time; O God, in the multitude of Your mercy, Hear me in the truth of Your salvation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver me out of the mire, And let me not sink; Let me be delivered from those who hate me, And out of the deep waters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let not the floodwater overflow me, Nor let the deep swallow me up; And let not the pit shut its mouth on me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear me, O LORD, for Your lovingkindness is good; Turn to me according to the multitude of Your tender mercies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And do not hide Your face from Your servant, For I am in trouble; Hear me speedily. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Draw near to my soul, and redeem it; Deliver me because of my enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You know my reproach, my shame, and my dishonor; My adversaries are all before You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Reproach has broken my heart, And I am full of heaviness; I looked for someone to take pity, but there was none; And for comforters, but I found none. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They also gave me gall for my food, And for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let their table become a snare before them, And their well-being a trap. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let their eyes be darkened, so that they do not see; And make their loins shake continually. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Pour out Your indignation upon them, And let Your wrathful anger take hold of them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let their dwelling place be desolate; Let no one live in their tents. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they persecute the ones You have struck, And talk of the grief of those You have wounded. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Add iniquity to their iniquity, And let them not come into Your righteousness.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, And not be written with the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I am poor and sorrowful; Let Your salvation, O God, set me up on high. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise the name of God with a song, And will magnify Him with thanksgiving. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This also shall please the LORD better than an ox or bull, Which has horns and hooves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The humble shall see this and be glad; And you who seek God, your hearts shall live. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD hears the poor, And does not despise His prisoners. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let heaven and earth praise Him, The seas and everything that moves in them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For God will save Zion And build the cities of Judah, That they may dwell there and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 possess it. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also, the descendants of His servants shall inherit it, And those who love His name shall dwell in it. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 70 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make haste, O God, to deliver me! Make haste to help me, O LORD!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be ashamed and confounded Who seek my life; Let them be turned back 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and confused Who desire my hurt.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be turned back because of their shame, Who say, "Aha, aha!" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let all those who seek You rejoice and be glad in You; And let those who love Your salvation say continually, "Let God be magnified!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I am poor and needy; Make haste to me, O God! You are my help and my deliverer; O LORD, do not delay. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 71 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In You, O LORD, I put my trust; Let me never be put to shame.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver me in Your righteousness, and cause me to escape; Incline Your ear to me, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 and save me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be my strong refuge, To which I may resort continually; You have given the commandment to save me, For You are my rock and my fortress. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, Out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You are my hope, O Lord GOD; You are my trust from my youth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By You I have been upheld from birth; You are He who took me out of my mother's womb. My praise shall be continually of You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have become as a wonder to many, But You are my strong refuge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let my mouth be filled with Your praise And with Your glory all the day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not cast me off in the time of old age; Do not forsake me when my strength fails. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For my enemies speak against me; And those who lie in wait for my life take counsel together, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Saying, "God has forsaken him; Pursue and take him, for there is none to deliver him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, do not be far from me; O my God, make haste to help me!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be confounded and consumed Who are adversaries of my life; Let them 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 be covered with reproach and dishonor Who seek my hurt.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I will hope continually, And will praise You yet more and more. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My mouth shall tell of Your righteousness And Your salvation all the day, For I do not know their limits. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD; I will make mention of Your righteousness, of Yours only. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, You have taught me from my youth; And to this day I declare Your wondrous works. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Now also when I am old and grayheaded, O God, do not forsake me, Until I declare Your strength to this generation, Your power to everyone who is to come. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also Your righteousness, O God, is very high, You who have done great things; O God, who is like You? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You, who have shown me great and severe troubles, Shall revive me again, And bring me up again from the depths of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall increase my greatness, And comfort me on every side. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also with the lute I will praise You-- And Your faithfulness, O my God! To You I will sing with the harp, O Holy One of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing to You, And my soul, which You have redeemed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My tongue also shall talk of Your righteousness all the day long; For they are confounded, For they are brought to shame Who seek my hurt. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 72 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give the king Your judgments, O God, And Your righteousness to the king's Son. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will judge Your people with righteousness, And Your poor with justice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The mountains will bring peace to the people, And the little hills, by righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will bring justice to the poor of the people; He will save the children of the needy, And will break in pieces the oppressor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They shall fear You As long as the sun and moon endure, Throughout all generations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall come down like rain upon the grass before mowing, Like showers that water the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In His days the righteous shall flourish, And abundance of peace, Until the moon is no more. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, And from the River to the ends of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who dwell in the wilderness will bow before Him, And His enemies will lick the dust. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The kings of Tarshish and of the isles Will bring presents; The kings of Sheba and Seba Will offer gifts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, all kings shall fall down before Him; All nations shall serve Him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He will deliver the needy when he cries, The poor also, and him who has no 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 helper.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will spare the poor and needy, And will save the souls of the needy. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will redeem their life from oppression and violence; And precious shall be their blood in His sight. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He shall live; And the gold of Sheba will be given to Him; Prayer also will be made for Him continually, And daily He shall be praised. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There will be an abundance of grain in the earth, On the top of the mountains; Its fruit shall wave like Lebanon; And those of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His name shall endure forever; His name shall continue as long as the sun. And men shall be blessed in Him; All nations shall call Him blessed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, Who only does wondrous things! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And blessed be His glorious name forever! And let the whole earth be filled with His 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 glory. Amen and Amen.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 73 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Truly God is good to Israel, To such as are pure in heart.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled; My steps had nearly slipped.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I was envious of the boastful, When I saw the prosperity of the wicked.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For there are no pangs in their death, But their strength is firm.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They are not in trouble as other men, Nor are they plagued like other men. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore pride serves as their necklace; Violence covers them like a garment. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their eyes bulge with abundance; They have more than heart could wish.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They scoff and speak wickedly concerning oppression; They speak loftily.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They set their mouth against the heavens, And their tongue walks through the earth. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore his people return here, And waters of a full cup are drained by them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they say, "How does God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High?" 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, these are the ungodly, Who are always at ease; They increase in riches. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely I have cleansed my heart in vain, And washed my hands in innocence. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For all day long I have been plagued, And chastened every morning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I had said, "I will speak thus," Behold, I would have been untrue to the generation of Your children. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When I thought how to understand this, It was too painful for me-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Until I went into the sanctuary of God; Then I understood their end. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely You set them in slippery places; You cast them down to destruction. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, how they are brought to desolation, as in a moment! They are utterly consumed with terrors. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As a dream when one awakes, So, Lord, when You awake, You shall despise their image. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Thus my heart was grieved, And I was vexed in my mind. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was so foolish and ignorant; I was like a beast before You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless I am continually with You; You hold me by my right hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You will guide me with Your counsel, And afterward receive me to glory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whom have I in heaven but You? And there is none upon earth that I desire besides You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My flesh and my heart fail; But God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For indeed, those who are far from You shall perish; You have destroyed all those who desert You for harlotry. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But it is good for me to draw near to God; I have put my trust in the Lord GOD, That I may declare all Your works. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 74 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, why have You cast us off forever? Why does Your anger smoke against the sheep of Your pasture? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remember Your congregation, which You have purchased of old, The tribe of Your inheritance, which You have redeemed-- This Mount Zion where You have dwelt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lift up Your feet to the perpetual desolations. The enemy has damaged everything in the sanctuary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your enemies roar in the midst of Your meeting place; They set up their banners for signs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They seem like men who lift up Axes among the thick trees.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And now they break down its carved work, all at once, With axes and hammers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have set fire to Your sanctuary; They have defiled the dwelling place of Your name to the ground. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They said in their hearts, "Let us destroy them altogether." They have burned up all the meeting places of God in the land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We do not see our signs; There is no longer any prophet; Nor is there any among us who knows how long. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, how long will the adversary reproach? Will the enemy blaspheme Your name forever? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why do You withdraw Your hand, even Your right hand? Take it out of Your bosom and destroy them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For God is my King from of old, Working salvation in the midst of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You divided the sea by Your strength; You broke the heads of the sea serpents in the waters. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You broke the heads of Leviathan in pieces, And gave him as food to the people inhabiting the wilderness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You broke open the fountain and the flood; You dried up mighty rivers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The day is Yours, the night also is Yours; You have prepared the light and the sun. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have set all the borders of the earth; You have made summer and winter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remember this, that the enemy has reproached, O LORD, And that a foolish people has blasphemed Your name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, do not deliver the life of Your turtledove to the wild beast! Do not forget the life of Your poor forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have respect to the covenant; For the dark places of the earth are full of the haunts of cruelty. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, do not let the oppressed return ashamed! Let the poor and needy praise Your name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Arise, O God, plead Your own cause; Remember how the foolish man reproaches You daily. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not forget the voice of Your enemies; The tumult of those who rise up against You increases continually. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 75 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We give thanks to You, O God, we give thanks! For Your wondrous works declare that Your name is near. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "When I choose the proper time, I will judge uprightly.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The earth and all its inhabitants are dissolved; I set up its pillars firmly.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I said to the boastful, "Do not deal boastfully,' And to the wicked, "Do not lift up the horn. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not lift up your horn on high; Do not speak with a stiff neck."' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For exaltation comes neither from the east Nor from the west nor from the south. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But God is the Judge: He puts down one, And exalts another. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, And the wine is red; It is fully mixed, and He pours it out; Surely its dregs shall all the wicked of the earth Drain and drink down. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But I will declare forever, I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "All the horns of the wicked I will also cut off, But the horns of the righteous shall be 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 exalted." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 76 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In Judah God is known; His name is great in Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In Salem also is His tabernacle, And His dwelling place in Zion. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There He broke the arrows of the bow, The shield and sword of battle.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are more glorious and excellent Than the mountains of prey. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The stouthearted were plundered; They have sunk into their sleep; And none of the mighty men have found the use of their hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At Your rebuke, O God of Jacob, Both the chariot and horse were cast into a dead sleep. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You, Yourself, are to be feared; And who may stand in Your presence When once You are angry? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You caused judgment to be heard from heaven; The earth feared and was still, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When God arose to judgment, To deliver all the oppressed of the earth.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely the wrath of man shall praise You; With the remainder of wrath You shall gird Yourself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make vows to the LORD your God, and pay them; Let all who are around Him bring presents to Him who ought to be feared. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall cut off the spirit of princes; He is awesome to the kings of the earth. 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 77 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I cried out to God with my voice-- To God with my voice; And He gave ear to me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord; My hand was stretched out in the night 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 without ceasing; My soul refused to be comforted. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I remembered God, and was troubled; I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You hold my eyelids open; I am so troubled that I cannot speak. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have considered the days of old, The years of ancient times. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I call to remembrance my song in the night; I meditate within my heart, And my spirit makes diligent search. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will the Lord cast off forever? And will He be favorable no more? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Has His mercy ceased forever? Has His promise failed forevermore? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has He in anger shut up His tender mercies?Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And I said, "This is my anguish; But I will remember the years of the right hand of the Most High." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will remember the works of the LORD; Surely I will remember Your wonders of old. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will also meditate on all Your work, And talk of Your deeds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your way, O God, is in the sanctuary; Who is so great a God as our God? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are the God who does wonders; You have declared Your strength among the peoples. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have with Your arm redeemed Your people, The sons of Jacob and Joseph.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The waters saw You, O God; The waters saw You, they were afraid; The depths also trembled. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The clouds poured out water; The skies sent out a sound; Your arrows also flashed about. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The voice of Your thunder was in the whirlwind; The lightnings lit up the world; The earth trembled and shook. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your way was in the sea, Your path in the great waters, And Your footsteps were not known. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You led Your people like a flock By the hand of Moses and Aaron. 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 78 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give ear, O my people, to my law; Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will open my mouth in a parable; I will utter dark sayings of old, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Which we have heard and known, And our fathers have told us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We will not hide them from their children, Telling to the generation to come the praises of the LORD, And His strength and His wonderful works that He has done. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He established a testimony in Jacob, And appointed a law in Israel, Which He commanded our fathers, That they should make them known to their children; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That the generation to come might know them, The children who would be born, That they may arise and declare them to their children, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That they may set their hope in God, And not forget the works of God, But keep His commandments; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And may not be like their fathers, A stubborn and rebellious generation, A generation that did not set its heart aright, And whose spirit was not faithful to God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The children of Ephraim, being armed and carrying bows, Turned back in the day of battle. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They did not keep the covenant of God; They refused to walk in His law, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And forgot His works And His wonders that He had shown them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Marvelous things He did in the sight of their fathers, In the land of Egypt, in the field 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of Zoan. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He divided the sea and caused them to pass through; And He made the waters stand up like a heap. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the daytime also He led them with the cloud, And all the night with a light of fire. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He split the rocks in the wilderness, And gave them drink in abundance like the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 depths.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also brought streams out of the rock, And caused waters to run down like rivers. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But they sinned even more against Him By rebelling against the Most High in the wilderness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And they tested God in their heart By asking for the food of their fancy.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, they spoke against God: They said, "Can God prepare a table in the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wilderness? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, He struck the rock, So that the waters gushed out, And the streams overflowed. Can He give bread also? Can He provide meat for His people? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore the LORD heard this and was furious; So a fire was kindled against Jacob, And anger also came up against Israel, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because they did not believe in God, And did not trust in His salvation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet He had commanded the clouds above, And opened the doors of heaven, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Had rained down manna on them to eat, And given them of the bread of heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Men ate angels' food; He sent them food to the full. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He caused an east wind to blow in the heavens; And by His power He brought in the south wind. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also rained meat on them like the dust, Feathered fowl like the sand of the seas; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He let them fall in the midst of their camp, All around their dwellings. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So they ate and were well filled, For He gave them their own desire. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They were not deprived of their craving; But while their food was still in their mouths, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wrath of God came against them, And slew the stoutest of them, And struck down the choice men of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In spite of this they still sinned, And did not believe in His wondrous works. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore their days He consumed in futility, And their years in fear. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When He slew them, then they sought Him; And they returned and sought earnestly for God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they remembered that God was their rock, And the Most High God their Redeemer. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless they flattered Him with their mouth, And they lied to Him with their tongue; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For their heart was not steadfast with Him, Nor were they faithful in His covenant. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But He, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, And did not destroy them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Yes, many a time He turned His anger away, And did not stir up all His wrath; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He remembered that they were but flesh, A breath that passes away and does not come again. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How often they provoked Him in the wilderness, And grieved Him in the desert! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, again and again they tempted God, And limited the Holy One of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They did not remember His power: The day when He redeemed them from the enemy, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When He worked His signs in Egypt, And His wonders in the field of Zoan; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Turned their rivers into blood, And their streams, that they could not drink. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sent swarms of flies among them, which devoured them, And frogs, which destroyed them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also gave their crops to the caterpillar, And their labor to the locust. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He destroyed their vines with hail, And their sycamore trees with frost. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also gave up their cattle to the hail, And their flocks to fiery lightning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He cast on them the fierceness of His anger, Wrath, indignation, and trouble, By sending angels of destruction among them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He made a path for His anger; He did not spare their soul from death, But gave their life over to the plague, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And destroyed all the firstborn in Egypt, The first of their strength in the tents of Ham. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But He made His own people go forth like sheep, And guided them in the wilderness like a flock; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 53
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He led them on safely, so that they did not fear; But the sea overwhelmed their enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 54
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He brought them to His holy border, This mountain which His right hand had acquired. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 55
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also drove out the nations before them, Allotted them an inheritance by survey, And made the tribes of Israel dwell in their tents. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 56
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet they tested and provoked the Most High God, And did not keep His testimonies, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 57
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But turned back and acted unfaithfully like their fathers; They were turned aside like 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 a deceitful bow. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 58
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they provoked Him to anger with their high places, And moved Him to jealousy with their carved images. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 59
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When God heard this, He was furious, And greatly abhorred Israel,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 60
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So that He forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, The tent He had placed among men, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 61
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And delivered His strength into captivity, And His glory into the enemy's hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 62
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also gave His people over to the sword, And was furious with His inheritance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 63
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fire consumed their young men, And their maidens were not given in marriage. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 64
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their priests fell by the sword, And their widows made no lamentation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 65
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the Lord awoke as from sleep, Like a mighty man who shouts because of wine. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 66
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He beat back His enemies; He put them to a perpetual reproach. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 67
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Moreover He rejected the tent of Joseph, And did not choose the tribe of Ephraim, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 68
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But chose the tribe of Judah, Mount Zion which He loved. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 69
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He built His sanctuary like the heights, Like the earth which He has established forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 70
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also chose David His servant, And took him from the sheepfolds;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 71
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From following the ewes that had young He brought him, To shepherd Jacob His 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 people, And Israel His inheritance. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 72
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So he shepherded them according to the integrity of his heart, And guided them by the skillfulness of his hands. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 79 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, the nations have come into Your inheritance; Your holy temple they have defiled; They have laid Jerusalem in heaps. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The dead bodies of Your servants They have given as food for the birds of the heavens, The flesh of Your saints to the beasts of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their blood they have shed like water all around Jerusalem, And there was no one to bury them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We have become a reproach to our neighbors, A scorn and derision to those who are around us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How long, LORD? Will You be angry forever? Will Your jealousy burn like fire?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Pour out Your wrath on the nations that do not know You, And on the kingdoms that 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 do not call on Your name.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they have devoured Jacob, And laid waste his dwelling place. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, do not remember former iniquities against us! Let Your tender mercies come speedily to meet us, For we have been brought very low. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Help us, O God of our salvation, For the glory of Your name; And deliver us, and provide atonement for our sins, For Your name's sake! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why should the nations say, "Where is their God?" Let there be known among the nations in our sight The avenging of the blood of Your servants which has been shed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the groaning of the prisoner come before You; According to the greatness of Your power Preserve those who are appointed to die; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And return to our neighbors sevenfold into their bosom Their reproach with which they have reproached You, O Lord. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So we, Your people and sheep of Your pasture, Will give You thanks forever; We will show forth Your praise to all generations. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 80 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, You who lead Joseph like a flock; You who dwell between the cherubim, shine forth! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Before Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh, Stir up Your strength, And come and save us! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Restore us, O God; Cause Your face to shine, And we shall be saved!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD God of hosts, How long will You be angry Against the prayer of Your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 people? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have fed them with the bread of tears, And given them tears to drink in great measure. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have made us a strife to our neighbors, And our enemies laugh among themselves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Restore us, O God of hosts; Cause Your face to shine, And we shall be saved! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have brought a vine out of Egypt; You have cast out the nations, and planted it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You prepared room for it, And caused it to take deep root, And it filled the land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The hills were covered with its shadow, And the mighty cedars with its boughs. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 She sent out her boughs to the Sea, And her branches to the River. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why have You broken down her hedges, So that all who pass by the way pluck her fruit? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The boar out of the woods uproots it, And the wild beast of the field devours it. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Return, we beseech You, O God of hosts; Look down from heaven and see, And 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 visit this vine 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the vineyard which Your right hand has planted, And the branch that You made strong for Yourself. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is burned with fire, it is cut down; They perish at the rebuke of Your countenance. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Your hand be upon the man of Your right hand, Upon the son of man whom 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 You made strong for Yourself.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then we will not turn back from You; Revive us, and we will call upon Your name. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Restore us, O LORD God of hosts; Cause Your face to shine, And we shall be saved! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 81 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing aloud to God our strength; Make a joyful shout to the God of Jacob. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Raise a song and strike the timbrel, The pleasant harp with the lute. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blow the trumpet at the time of the New Moon, At the full moon, on our solemn feast day. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For this is a statute for Israel, A law of the God of Jacob.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This He established in Joseph as a testimony, When He went throughout the land of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Egypt, Where I heard a language I did not understand.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I removed his shoulder from the burden; His hands were freed from the baskets. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You called in trouble, and I delivered you; I answered you in the secret place of thunder; I tested you at the waters of Meribah.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Hear, O My people, and I will admonish you! O Israel, if you will listen to Me! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There shall be no foreign god among you; Nor shall you worship any foreign god. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am the LORD your God, Who brought you out of the land of Egypt; Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But My people would not heed My voice, And Israel would have none of Me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I gave them over to their own stubborn heart, To walk in their own counsels. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Oh, that My people would listen to Me, That Israel would walk in My ways! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I would soon subdue their enemies, And turn My hand against their adversaries. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The haters of the LORD would pretend submission to Him, But their fate would endure forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He would have fed them also with the finest of wheat; And with honey from the rock I would have satisfied you." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 82 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God stands in the congregation of the mighty; He judges among the gods. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How long will you judge unjustly, And show partiality to the wicked?Selah 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Defend the poor and fatherless; Do justice to the afflicted and needy. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver the poor and needy; Free them from the hand of the wicked.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They do not know, nor do they understand; They walk about in darkness; All the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 foundations of the earth are unstable.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I said, "You are gods, And all of you are children of the Most High. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But you shall die like men, And fall like one of the princes."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Arise, O God, judge the earth; For You shall inherit all nations. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 83 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not keep silent, O God! Do not hold Your peace, And do not be still, O God!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For behold, Your enemies make a tumult; And those who hate You have lifted up 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 their head. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have taken crafty counsel against Your people, And consulted together against Your sheltered ones. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have said, "Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation, That the name of Israel may be remembered no more." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they have consulted together with one consent; They form a confederacy against You: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites; Moab and the Hagrites; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek; Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Assyria also has joined with them; They have helped the children of Lot.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deal with them as with Midian, As with Sisera, As with Jabin at the Brook Kishon, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who perished at En Dor, Who became as refuse on the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make their nobles like Oreb and like Zeeb, Yes, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who said, "Let us take for ourselves The pastures of God for a possession." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O my God, make them like the whirling dust, Like the chaff before the wind! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As the fire burns the woods, And as the flame sets the mountains on fire, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So pursue them with Your tempest, And frighten them with Your storm. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Fill their faces with shame, That they may seek Your name, O LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be confounded and dismayed forever; Yes, let them be put to shame and perish, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That they may know that You, whose name alone is the LORD, Are the Most High over all the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 84 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How lovely is Your tabernacle, O LORD of hosts!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul longs, yes, even faints For the courts of the LORD; My heart and my flesh 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 cry out for the living God. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even the sparrow has found a home, And the swallow a nest for herself, Where she may lay her young-- Even Your altars, O LORD of hosts, My King and my God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed are those who dwell in Your house; They will still be praising You.Selah 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is the man whose strength is in You, Whose heart is set on pilgrimage. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As they pass through the Valley of Baca, They make it a spring; The rain also covers it with pools. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They go from strength to strength; Each one appears before God in Zion. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer; Give ear, O God of Jacob!Selah 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, behold our shield, And look upon the face of Your anointed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For a day in Your courts is better than a thousand. I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God Than dwell in the tents of wickedness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD God is a sun and shield; The LORD will give grace and glory; No good thing will He withhold From those who walk uprightly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD of hosts, Blessed is the man who trusts in You! 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 85 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, You have been favorable to Your land; You have brought back the captivity of Jacob. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have forgiven the iniquity of Your people; You have covered all their sin.Selah 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have taken away all Your wrath; You have turned from the fierceness of Your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 anger. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Restore us, O God of our salvation, And cause Your anger toward us to cease. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will You be angry with us forever? Will You prolong Your anger to all generations? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will You not revive us again, That Your people may rejoice in You? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Show us Your mercy, LORD, And grant us Your salvation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will hear what God the LORD will speak, For He will speak peace To His people and to His saints; But let them not turn back to folly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely His salvation is near to those who fear Him, That glory may dwell in our land. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Mercy and truth have met together; Righteousness and peace have kissed.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Truth shall spring out of the earth, And righteousness shall look down from heaven. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, the LORD will give what is good; And our land will yield its increase. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Righteousness will go before Him, And shall make His footsteps our pathway. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 86 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bow down Your ear, O LORD, hear me; For I am poor and needy. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Preserve my life, for I am holy; You are my God; Save Your servant who trusts in You! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be merciful to me, O Lord, For I cry to You all day long.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rejoice the soul of Your servant, For to You, O Lord, I lift up my soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You, Lord, are good, and ready to forgive, And abundant in mercy to all those who call upon You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give ear, O LORD, to my prayer; And attend to the voice of my supplications. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the day of my trouble I will call upon You, For You will answer me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Among the gods there is none like You, O Lord; Nor are there any works like Your works. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All nations whom You have made Shall come and worship before You, O Lord, And shall glorify Your name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You are great, and do wondrous things; You alone are God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Teach me Your way, O LORD; I will walk in Your truth; Unite my heart to fear Your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 name. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise You, O Lord my God, with all my heart, And I will glorify Your name forevermore. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For great is Your mercy toward me, And You have delivered my soul from the depths of Sheol. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, the proud have risen against me, And a mob of violent men have sought my life, And have not set You before them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You, O Lord, are a God full of compassion, and gracious, Longsuffering and abundant in mercy and truth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, turn to me, and have mercy on me! Give Your strength to Your servant, And save the son of Your maidservant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Show me a sign for good, That those who hate me may see it and be ashamed, Because You, LORD, have helped me and comforted me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 87 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His foundation is in the holy mountains. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD loves the gates of Zion More than all the dwellings of Jacob. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Glorious things are spoken of you, O city of God!Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to those who know Me; Behold, O Philistia and Tyre, with Ethiopia: "This one was born there.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And of Zion it will be said, "This one and that one were born in her; And the Most High Himself shall establish her." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will record, When He registers the peoples: "This one was born there."Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Both the singers and the players on instruments say, "All my springs are in you." 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 88 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, God of my salvation, I have cried out day and night before You. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let my prayer come before You; Incline Your ear to my cry. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For my soul is full of troubles, And my life draws near to the grave. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am counted with those who go down to the pit; I am like a man who has no strength, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Adrift among the dead, Like the slain who lie in the grave, Whom You remember no more, And who are cut off from Your hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have laid me in the lowest pit, In darkness, in the depths.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your wrath lies heavy upon me, And You have afflicted me with all Your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 waves.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have put away my acquaintances far from me; You have made me an abomination to them; I am shut up, and I cannot get out; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My eye wastes away because of affliction. LORD, I have called daily upon You; I have stretched out my hands to You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Will You work wonders for the dead? Shall the dead arise and praise You?Selah 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Shall Your lovingkindness be declared in the grave? Or Your faithfulness in the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 place of destruction? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Shall Your wonders be known in the dark? And Your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But to You I have cried out, O LORD, And in the morning my prayer comes before You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, why do You cast off my soul? Why do You hide Your face from me?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have been afflicted and ready to die from my youth; I suffer Your terrors; I am 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 distraught. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your fierce wrath has gone over me; Your terrors have cut me off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They came around me all day long like water; They engulfed me altogether. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Loved one and friend You have put far from me, And my acquaintances into darkness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 89 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will sing of the mercies of the LORD forever; With my mouth will I make known Your faithfulness to all generations. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I have said, "Mercy shall be built up forever; Your faithfulness You shall establish in the very heavens." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "I have made a covenant with My chosen, I have sworn to My servant David:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Your seed I will establish forever, And build up your throne to all 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 generations."'Selah 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And the heavens will praise Your wonders, O LORD; Your faithfulness also in the assembly of the saints. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For who in the heavens can be compared to the LORD? Who among the sons of the mighty can be likened to the LORD? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, And to be held in reverence by all those around Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD God of hosts, Who is mighty like You, O LORD? Your faithfulness also surrounds You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You rule the raging of the sea; When its waves rise, You still them.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have broken Rahab in pieces, as one who is slain; You have scattered Your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 enemies with Your mighty arm. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heavens are Yours, the earth also is Yours; The world and all its fullness, You have founded them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The north and the south, You have created them; Tabor and Hermon rejoice in Your name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have a mighty arm; Strong is Your hand, and high is Your right hand. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Righteousness and justice are the foundation of Your throne; Mercy and truth go 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 before Your face. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed are the people who know the joyful sound! They walk, O LORD, in the light of Your countenance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In Your name they rejoice all day long, And in Your righteousness they are exalted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You are the glory of their strength, And in Your favor our horn is exalted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For our shield belongs to the LORD, And our king to the Holy One of Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then You spoke in a vision to Your holy one, And said: "I have given help to one who is mighty; I have exalted one chosen from the people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have found My servant David; With My holy oil I have anointed him,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With whom My hand shall be established; Also My arm shall strengthen him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The enemy shall not outwit him, Nor the son of wickedness afflict him.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will beat down his foes before his face, And plague those who hate him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "But My faithfulness and My mercy shall be with him, And in My name his horn shall be exalted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also I will set his hand over the sea, And his right hand over the rivers. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall cry to Me, "You are my Father, My God, and the rock of my salvation.' 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Also I will make him My firstborn, The highest of the kings of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My mercy I will keep for him forever, And My covenant shall stand firm with him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His seed also I will make to endure forever, And his throne as the days of heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If his sons forsake My law And do not walk in My judgments, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If they break My statutes And do not keep My commandments, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I will punish their transgression with the rod, And their iniquity with stripes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless My lovingkindness I will not utterly take from him, Nor allow My faithfulness to fail. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My covenant I will not break, Nor alter the word that has gone out of My lips. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Once I have sworn by My holiness; I will not lie to David: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His seed shall endure forever, And his throne as the sun before Me; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It shall be established forever like the moon, Even like the faithful witness in the sky."Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You have cast off and abhorred, You have been furious with Your anointed. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have renounced the covenant of Your servant; You have profaned his crown 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 by casting it to the ground.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have broken down all his hedges; You have brought his strongholds to ruin. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All who pass by the way plunder him; He is a reproach to his neighbors.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries; You have made all his enemies 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 rejoice. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have also turned back the edge of his sword, And have not sustained him in the battle. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have made his glory cease, And cast his throne down to the ground.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The days of his youth You have shortened; You have covered him with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 shame.Selah\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How long, LORD? Will You hide Yourself forever? Will Your wrath burn like fire? 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remember how short my time is; For what futility have You created all the children of men? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What man can live and not see death? Can he deliver his life from the power of the grave?Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lord, where are Your former lovingkindnesses, Which You swore to David in Your truth? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remember, Lord, the reproach of Your servants-- How I bear in my bosom the reproach of all the many peoples, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With which Your enemies have reproached, O LORD, With which they have reproached the footsteps of Your anointed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the LORD forevermore! Amen and Amen. 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 90 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lord, You have been our dwelling place in all generations.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Before the mountains were brought forth, Or ever You had formed the earth and the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 world, Even from everlasting to everlasting, You are God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You turn man to destruction, And say, "Return, O children of men." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For a thousand years in Your sight Are like yesterday when it is past, And like a watch in the night. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You carry them away like a flood; They are like a sleep. In the morning they are like grass which grows up: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the morning it flourishes and grows up; In the evening it is cut down and withers. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For we have been consumed by Your anger, And by Your wrath we are terrified. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have set our iniquities before You, Our secret sins in the light of Your countenance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For all our days have passed away in Your wrath; We finish our years like a sigh. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The days of our lives are seventy years; And if by reason of strength they are eighty 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 years, Yet their boast is only labor and sorrow; For it is soon cut off, and we fly away. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who knows the power of Your anger? For as the fear of You, so is Your wrath. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So teach us to number our days, That we may gain a heart of wisdom.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Return, O LORD! How long? And have compassion on Your servants. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, satisfy us early with Your mercy, That we may rejoice and be glad all our days! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make us glad according to the days in which You have afflicted us, The years in 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 which we have seen evil.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Your work appear to Your servants, And Your glory to their children. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And let the beauty of the LORD our God be upon us, And establish the work of our hands for us; Yes, establish the work of our hands. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 91 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High Shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will say of the LORD, "He is my refuge and my fortress; My God, in Him I will trust." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely He shall deliver you from the snare of the fowler And from the perilous pestilence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall cover you with His feathers, And under His wings you shall take refuge; His truth shall be your shield and buckler. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall not be afraid of the terror by night, Nor of the arrow that flies by day,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nor of the pestilence that walks in darkness, Nor of the destruction that lays waste at 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 noonday. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A thousand may fall at your side, And ten thousand at your right hand; But it shall not come near you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Only with your eyes shall you look, And see the reward of the wicked.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because you have made the LORD, who is my refuge, Even the Most High, your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 dwelling place, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 No evil shall befall you, Nor shall any plague come near your dwelling; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He shall give His angels charge over you, To keep you in all your ways. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In their hands they shall bear you up, Lest you dash your foot against a stone. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You shall tread upon the lion and the cobra, The young lion and the serpent you shall trample underfoot. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Because he has set his love upon Me, therefore I will deliver him; I will set him on high, because he has known My name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall call upon Me, and I will answer him; I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him and honor him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With long life I will satisfy him, And show him My salvation." 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 92 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is good to give thanks to the LORD, And to sing praises to Your name, O Most High; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To declare Your lovingkindness in the morning, And Your faithfulness every night, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 On an instrument of ten strings, On the lute, And on the harp, With harmonious 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 sound. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You, LORD, have made me glad through Your work; I will triumph in the works of Your hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, how great are Your works! Your thoughts are very deep. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A senseless man does not know, Nor does a fool understand this. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the wicked spring up like grass, And when all the workers of iniquity flourish, It is that they may be destroyed forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You, LORD, are on high forevermore.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For behold, Your enemies, O LORD, For behold, Your enemies shall perish; All the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 workers of iniquity shall be scattered.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But my horn You have exalted like a wild ox; I have been anointed with fresh oil. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My eye also has seen my desire on my enemies; My ears hear my desire on the wicked Who rise up against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous shall flourish like a palm tree, He shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who are planted in the house of the LORD Shall flourish in the courts of our 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They shall still bear fruit in old age; They shall be fresh and flourishing, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To declare that the LORD is upright; He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in Him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 93 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD reigns, He is clothed with majesty; The LORD is clothed, He has girded Himself with strength. Surely the world is established, so that it cannot be moved. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your throne is established from of old; You are from everlasting. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The floods have lifted up, O LORD, The floods have lifted up their voice; The floods lift up their waves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD on high is mightier Than the noise of many waters, Than the mighty waves of the sea. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your testimonies are very sure; Holiness adorns Your house, O LORD, forever. 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 94 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD God, to whom vengeance belongs-- O God, to whom vengeance belongs, shine forth! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rise up, O Judge of the earth; Render punishment to the proud. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, how long will the wicked, How long will the wicked triumph? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They utter speech, and speak insolent things; All the workers of iniquity boast in themselves. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They break in pieces Your people, O LORD, And afflict Your heritage. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They slay the widow and the stranger, And murder the fatherless. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet they say, "The LORD does not see, Nor does the God of Jacob understand." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Understand, you senseless among the people; And you fools, when will you be wise? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who planted the ear, shall He not hear? He who formed the eye, shall He not see? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who instructs the nations, shall He not correct, He who teaches man knowledge? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD knows the thoughts of man, That they are futile.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is the man whom You instruct, O LORD, And teach out of Your law, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That You may give him rest from the days of adversity, Until the pit is dug for the wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD will not cast off His people, Nor will He forsake His inheritance. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But judgment will return to righteousness, And all the upright in heart will follow it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? Who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Unless the LORD had been my help, My soul would soon have settled in silence. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I say, "My foot slips," Your mercy, O LORD, will hold me up.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the multitude of my anxieties within me, Your comforts delight my soul.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Shall the throne of iniquity, which devises evil by law, Have fellowship with You? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They gather together against the life of the righteous, And condemn innocent blood. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the LORD has been my defense, And my God the rock of my refuge. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has brought on them their own iniquity, And shall cut them off in their own wickedness; The LORD our God shall cut them off. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 95 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh come, let us sing to the LORD! Let us shout joyfully to the Rock of our salvation. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let us come before His presence with thanksgiving; Let us shout joyfully to Him with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 psalms. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD is the great God, And the great King above all gods. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In His hand are the deep places of the earth; The heights of the hills are His also. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The sea is His, for He made it; And His hands formed the dry land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh come, let us worship and bow down; Let us kneel before the LORD our Maker. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He is our God, And we are the people of His pasture, And the sheep of His hand. Today, if you will hear His voice: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Do not harden your hearts, as in the rebellion, As in the day of trial in the wilderness, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When your fathers tested Me; They tried Me, though they saw My work.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For forty years I was grieved with that generation, And said, "It is a people who go 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 astray in their hearts, And they do not know My ways.' 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So I swore in My wrath, "They shall not enter My rest.' 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 96 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, sing to the LORD a new song! Sing to the LORD, all the earth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing to the LORD, bless His name; Proclaim the good news of His salvation from 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 day to day. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Declare His glory among the nations, His wonders among all peoples. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD is great and greatly to be praised; He is to be feared above all gods. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For all the gods of the peoples are idols, But the LORD made the heavens. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Honor and majesty are before Him; Strength and beauty are in His sanctuary. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give to the LORD, O families of the peoples, Give to the LORD glory and strength. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give to the LORD the glory due His name; Bring an offering, and come into His courts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness! Tremble before Him, all the earth. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Say among the nations, "The LORD reigns; The world also is firmly established, It 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 shall not be moved; He shall judge the peoples righteously." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; Let the sea roar, and all its fullness; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the field be joyful, and all that is in it. Then all the trees of the woods will rejoice before the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He is coming, for He is coming to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness, And the peoples with His truth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 97 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD reigns; Let the earth rejoice; Let the multitude of isles be glad!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Clouds and darkness surround Him; Righteousness and justice are the foundation of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 His throne. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A fire goes before Him, And burns up His enemies round about. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His lightnings light the world; The earth sees and trembles. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The mountains melt like wax at the presence of the LORD, At the presence of the Lord of the whole earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heavens declare His righteousness, And all the peoples see His glory.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let all be put to shame who serve carved images, Who boast of idols. Worship Him, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 all you gods. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Zion hears and is glad, And the daughters of Judah rejoice Because of Your judgments, O LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You, LORD, are most high above all the earth; You are exalted far above all gods. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You who love the LORD, hate evil! He preserves the souls of His saints; He delivers them out of the hand of the wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Light is sown for the righteous, And gladness for the upright in heart.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rejoice in the LORD, you righteous, And give thanks at the remembrance of His 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 holy name. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 98 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, sing to the LORD a new song! For He has done marvelous things; His right hand and His holy arm have gained Him the victory. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD has made known His salvation; His righteousness He has revealed in the sight of the nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has remembered His mercy and His faithfulness to the house of Israel; All the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Shout joyfully to the LORD, all the earth; Break forth in song, rejoice, and sing praises. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing to the LORD with the harp, With the harp and the sound of a psalm, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With trumpets and the sound of a horn; Shout joyfully before the LORD, the King. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the sea roar, and all its fullness, The world and those who dwell in it; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the rivers clap their hands; Let the hills be joyful together before the LORD, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He is coming to judge the earth. With righteousness He shall judge the world, And the peoples with equity. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 99 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD reigns; Let the peoples tremble! He dwells between the cherubim; Let the earth be moved! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is great in Zion, And He is high above all the peoples. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them praise Your great and awesome name-- He is holy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The King's strength also loves justice; You have established equity; You have executed justice and righteousness in Jacob. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Exalt the LORD our God, And worship at His footstool-- He is holy.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Moses and Aaron were among His priests, And Samuel was among those who 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 called upon His name; They called upon the LORD, and He answered them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He spoke to them in the cloudy pillar; They kept His testimonies and the ordinance He gave them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You answered them, O LORD our God; You were to them God-Who-Forgives, Though You took vengeance on their deeds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Exalt the LORD our God, And worship at His holy hill; For the LORD our God is holy. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 100 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make a joyful shout to the LORD, all you lands!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Serve the LORD with gladness; Come before His presence with singing. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Know that the LORD, He is God; It is He who has made us, and not we ourselves; We are His people and the sheep of His pasture. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Enter into His gates with thanksgiving, And into His courts with praise. Be thankful to Him, and bless His name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD is good; His mercy is everlasting, And His truth endures to all generations. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 101 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will sing of mercy and justice; To You, O LORD, I will sing praises.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will behave wisely in a perfect way. Oh, when will You come to me? I will walk 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 within my house with a perfect heart. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will set nothing wicked before my eyes; I hate the work of those who fall away; It shall not cling to me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A perverse heart shall depart from me; I will not know wickedness.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever secretly slanders his neighbor, Him I will destroy; The one who has a 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 haughty look and a proud heart, Him I will not endure. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My eyes shall be on the faithful of the land, That they may dwell with me; He who walks in a perfect way, He shall serve me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who works deceit shall not dwell within my house; He who tells lies shall not continue in my presence. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Early I will destroy all the wicked of the land, That I may cut off all the evildoers from the city of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 102 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear my prayer, O LORD, And let my cry come to You.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not hide Your face from me in the day of my trouble; Incline Your ear to me; In 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the day that I call, answer me speedily. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For my days are consumed like smoke, And my bones are burned like a hearth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My heart is stricken and withered like grass, So that I forget to eat my bread. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because of the sound of my groaning My bones cling to my skin. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am like a pelican of the wilderness; I am like an owl of the desert. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I lie awake, And am like a sparrow alone on the housetop. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My enemies reproach me all day long; Those who deride me swear an oath against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I have eaten ashes like bread, And mingled my drink with weeping,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because of Your indignation and Your wrath; For You have lifted me up and cast 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 me away.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My days are like a shadow that lengthens, And I wither away like grass. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You, O LORD, shall endure forever, And the remembrance of Your name to all generations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You will arise and have mercy on Zion; For the time to favor her, Yes, the set time, has come. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Your servants take pleasure in her stones, And show favor to her dust.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So the nations shall fear the name of the LORD, And all the kings of the earth Your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 glory.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD shall build up Zion; He shall appear in His glory.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall regard the prayer of the destitute, And shall not despise their prayer. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This will be written for the generation to come, That a people yet to be created may praise the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He looked down from the height of His sanctuary; From heaven the LORD viewed the earth, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To hear the groaning of the prisoner, To release those appointed to death,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, And His praise in Jerusalem,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the peoples are gathered together, And the kingdoms, to serve the LORD. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He weakened my strength in the way; He shortened my days. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I said, "O my God, Do not take me away in the midst of my days; Your years are throughout all generations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Of old You laid the foundation of the earth, And the heavens are the work of Your hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They will perish, but You will endure; Yes, they will all grow old like a garment; Like a cloak You will change them, And they will be changed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You are the same, And Your years will have no end.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The children of Your servants will continue, And their descendants will be 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 established before You." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 103 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bless the LORD, O my soul; And all that is within me, bless His holy name! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bless the LORD, O my soul, And forget not all His benefits: 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who forgives all your iniquities, Who heals all your diseases, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who redeems your life from destruction, Who crowns you with lovingkindness and tender mercies, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who satisfies your mouth with good things, So that your youth is renewed like the eagle's. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD executes righteousness And justice for all who are oppressed. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He made known His ways to Moses, His acts to the children of Israel.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is merciful and gracious, Slow to anger, and abounding in mercy. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will not always strive with us, Nor will He keep His anger forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has not dealt with us according to our sins, Nor punished us according to our iniquities. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For as the heavens are high above the earth, So great is His mercy toward those who fear Him; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As far as the east is from the west, So far has He removed our transgressions from us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As a father pities his children, So the LORD pities those who fear Him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He knows our frame; He remembers that we are dust. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for man, his days are like grass; As a flower of the field, so he flourishes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the wind passes over it, and it is gone, And its place remembers it no more. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But the mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting On those who fear Him, And His righteousness to children's children, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To such as keep His covenant, And to those who remember His commandments to do them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD has established His throne in heaven, And His kingdom rules over all. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bless the LORD, you His angels, Who excel in strength, who do His word, Heeding 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the voice of His word.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bless the LORD, all you His hosts, You ministers of His, who do His pleasure. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bless the LORD, all His works, In all places of His dominion. Bless the LORD, O my soul! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 104 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bless the LORD, O my soul! O LORD my God, You are very great: You are clothed with honor and majesty, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who cover Yourself with light as with a garment, Who stretch out the heavens like a curtain. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He lays the beams of His upper chambers in the waters, Who makes the clouds His chariot, Who walks on the wings of the wind, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who makes His angels spirits, His ministers a flame of fire.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You who laid the foundations of the earth, So that it should not be moved forever, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You covered it with the deep as with a garment; The waters stood above the mountains. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At Your rebuke they fled; At the voice of Your thunder they hastened away.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They went up over the mountains; They went down into the valleys, To the place 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 which You founded for them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have set a boundary that they may not pass over, That they may not return to cover the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sends the springs into the valleys; They flow among the hills. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They give drink to every beast of the field; The wild donkeys quench their thirst. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By them the birds of the heavens have their home; They sing among the branches. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He waters the hills from His upper chambers; The earth is satisfied with the fruit of Your works. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He causes the grass to grow for the cattle, And vegetation for the service of man, That he may bring forth food from the earth, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And wine that makes glad the heart of man, Oil to make his face shine, And bread which strengthens man's heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The trees of the LORD are full of sap, The cedars of Lebanon which He planted, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Where the birds make their nests; The stork has her home in the fir trees.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The high hills are for the wild goats; The cliffs are a refuge for the rock badgers. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He appointed the moon for seasons; The sun knows its going down. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You make darkness, and it is night, In which all the beasts of the forest creep about. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The young lions roar after their prey, And seek their food from God.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the sun rises, they gather together And lie down in their dens.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Man goes out to his work And to his labor until the evening. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, how manifold are Your works! In wisdom You have made them all. The earth is full of Your possessions-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This great and wide sea, In which are innumerable teeming things, Living things both small and great. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There the ships sail about; There is that Leviathan Which You have made to play there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 These all wait for You, That You may give them their food in due season.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What You give them they gather in; You open Your hand, they are filled with good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You hide Your face, they are troubled; You take away their breath, they die and return to their dust. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You send forth Your Spirit, they are created; And You renew the face of the earth. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May the glory of the LORD endure forever; May the LORD rejoice in His works. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He looks on the earth, and it trembles; He touches the hills, and they smoke. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May my meditation be sweet to Him; I will be glad in the LORD.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May sinners be consumed from the earth, And the wicked be no more. Bless the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 LORD, O my soul! Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 105 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, give thanks to the LORD! Call upon His name; Make known His deeds among the peoples! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing to Him, sing psalms to Him; Talk of all His wondrous works! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Glory in His holy name; Let the hearts of those rejoice who seek the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Seek the LORD and His strength; Seek His face evermore! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remember His marvelous works which He has done, His wonders, and the judgments of His mouth, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O seed of Abraham His servant, You children of Jacob, His chosen ones! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He is the LORD our God; His judgments are in all the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He remembers His covenant forever, The word which He commanded, for a thousand generations, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The covenant which He made with Abraham, And His oath to Isaac,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And confirmed it to Jacob for a statute, To Israel as an everlasting covenant, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan As the allotment of your inheritance," 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they were few in number, Indeed very few, and strangers in it.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they went from one nation to another, From one kingdom to another people, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He permitted no one to do them wrong; Yes, He rebuked kings for their sakes, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Saying, "Do not touch My anointed ones, And do My prophets no harm." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Moreover He called for a famine in the land; He destroyed all the provision of bread. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sent a man before them-- Joseph--who was sold as a slave. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They hurt his feet with fetters, He was laid in irons. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Until the time that his word came to pass, The word of the LORD tested him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The king sent and released him, The ruler of the people let him go free. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He made him lord of his house, And ruler of all his possessions, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To bind his princes at his pleasure, And teach his elders wisdom. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Israel also came into Egypt, And Jacob dwelt in the land of Ham. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He increased His people greatly, And made them stronger than their enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He turned their heart to hate His people, To deal craftily with His servants. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sent Moses His servant, And Aaron whom He had chosen. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They performed His signs among them, And wonders in the land of Ham. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sent darkness, and made it dark; And they did not rebel against His word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He turned their waters into blood, And killed their fish. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their land abounded with frogs, Even in the chambers of their kings. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He spoke, and there came swarms of flies, And lice in all their territory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He gave them hail for rain, And flaming fire in their land. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He struck their vines also, and their fig trees, And splintered the trees of their territory. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He spoke, and locusts came, Young locusts without number,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And ate up all the vegetation in their land, And devoured the fruit of their ground. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also destroyed all the firstborn in their land, The first of all their strength. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also brought them out with silver and gold, And there was none feeble among His tribes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Egypt was glad when they departed, For the fear of them had fallen upon them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He spread a cloud for a covering, And fire to give light in the night. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The people asked, and He brought quail, And satisfied them with the bread of heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He opened the rock, and water gushed out; It ran in the dry places like a river. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He remembered His holy promise, And Abraham His servant.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He brought out His people with joy, His chosen ones with gladness.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He gave them the lands of the Gentiles, And they inherited the labor of the nations, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That they might observe His statutes And keep His laws. Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 106 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD! Oh, give thanks to the LORD, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD? Who can declare all His praise? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed are those who keep justice, And he who does righteousness at all times! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remember me, O LORD, with the favor You have toward Your people. Oh, visit me with Your salvation, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That I may see the benefit of Your chosen ones, That I may rejoice in the gladness of Your nation, That I may glory with Your inheritance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We have sinned with our fathers, We have committed iniquity, We have done wickedly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our fathers in Egypt did not understand Your wonders; They did not remember the multitude of Your mercies, But rebelled by the sea--the Red Sea. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless He saved them for His name's sake, That He might make His mighty power known. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it dried up; So He led them through the depths, As through the wilderness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He saved them from the hand of him who hated them, And redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The waters covered their enemies; There was not one of them left.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they believed His words; They sang His praise.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They soon forgot His works; They did not wait for His counsel,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, And tested God in the desert.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He gave them their request, But sent leanness into their soul.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they envied Moses in the camp, And Aaron the saint of the LORD,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The earth opened up and swallowed Dathan, And covered the faction of Abiram. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A fire was kindled in their company; The flame burned up the wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They made a calf in Horeb, And worshiped the molded image. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Thus they changed their glory Into the image of an ox that eats grass. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They forgot God their Savior, Who had done great things in Egypt, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wondrous works in the land of Ham, Awesome things by the Red Sea. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore He said that He would destroy them, Had not Moses His chosen one stood before Him in the breach, To turn away His wrath, lest He destroy them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they despised the pleasant land; They did not believe His word, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But complained in their tents, And did not heed the voice of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore He raised His hand in an oath against them, To overthrow them in the wilderness, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To overthrow their descendants among the nations, And to scatter them in the lands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They joined themselves also to Baal of Peor, And ate sacrifices made to the dead. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Thus they provoked Him to anger with their deeds, And the plague broke out 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 among them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then Phinehas stood up and intervened, And the plague was stopped. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And that was accounted to him for righteousness To all generations forevermore. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They angered Him also at the waters of strife, So that it went ill with Moses on account of them; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because they rebelled against His Spirit, So that he spoke rashly with his lips. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They did not destroy the peoples, Concerning whom the LORD had commanded 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 them, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But they mingled with the Gentiles And learned their works; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They served their idols, Which became a snare to them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They even sacrificed their sons And their daughters to demons, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And shed innocent blood, The blood of their sons and daughters, Whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan; And the land was polluted with blood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Thus they were defiled by their own works, And played the harlot by their own deeds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore the wrath of the LORD was kindled against His people, So that He abhorred His own inheritance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He gave them into the hand of the Gentiles, And those who hated them ruled over them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their enemies also oppressed them, And they were brought into subjection under their hand. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Many times He delivered them; But they rebelled in their counsel, And were brought low for their iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Nevertheless He regarded their affliction, When He heard their cry;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And for their sake He remembered His covenant, And relented according to the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 multitude of His mercies.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also made them to be pitied By all those who carried them away captive. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Save us, O LORD our God, And gather us from among the Gentiles, To give thanks to Your holy name, To triumph in Your praise. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the LORD God of Israel From everlasting to everlasting! And let all the people say, "Amen!" Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 107 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, give thanks to the LORD, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, Whom He has redeemed from the hand of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the enemy, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And gathered out of the lands, From the east and from the west, From the north and from the south. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They wandered in the wilderness in a desolate way; They found no city to dwell in. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hungry and thirsty, Their soul fainted in them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He delivered them out of their distresses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He led them forth by the right way, That they might go to a city for a dwelling place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that men would give thanks to the LORD for His goodness, And for His wonderful works to the children of men! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He satisfies the longing soul, And fills the hungry soul with goodness.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, Bound in affliction and 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 irons-- 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because they rebelled against the words of God, And despised the counsel of the Most High, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore He brought down their heart with labor; They fell down, and there was none to help. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He saved them out of their distresses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, And broke their chains in pieces. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that men would give thanks to the LORD for His goodness, And for His wonderful works to the children of men! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He has broken the gates of bronze, And cut the bars of iron in two. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Fools, because of their transgression, And because of their iniquities, were afflicted. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their soul abhorred all manner of food, And they drew near to the gates of death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, And He saved them out of their distresses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sent His word and healed them, And delivered them from their destructions. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that men would give thanks to the LORD for His goodness, And for His 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 wonderful works to the children of men! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, And declare His works with rejoicing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who go down to the sea in ships, Who do business on great waters, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They see the works of the LORD, And His wonders in the deep. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He commands and raises the stormy wind, Which lifts up the waves of the sea. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They mount up to the heavens, They go down again to the depths; Their soul melts 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 because of trouble.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, And are at their wits' end. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they cry out to the LORD in their trouble, And He brings them out of their distresses. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He calms the storm, So that its waves are still.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they are glad because they are quiet; So He guides them to their desired 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 haven. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that men would give thanks to the LORD for His goodness, And for His wonderful works to the children of men! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them exalt Him also in the assembly of the people, And praise Him in the company of the elders. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He turns rivers into a wilderness, And the watersprings into dry ground; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A fruitful land into barrenness, For the wickedness of those who dwell in it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He turns a wilderness into pools of water, And dry land into watersprings. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There He makes the hungry dwell, That they may establish a city for a dwelling place, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And sow fields and plant vineyards, That they may yield a fruitful harvest.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also blesses them, and they multiply greatly; And He does not let their cattle 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 decrease. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When they are diminished and brought low Through oppression, affliction and sorrow, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He pours contempt on princes, And causes them to wander in the wilderness where there is no way; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yet He sets the poor on high, far from affliction, And makes their families like a flock. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteous see it and rejoice, And all iniquity stops its mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whoever is wise will observe these things, And they will understand the lovingkindness of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 108 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O God, my heart is steadfast; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Awake, lute and harp! I will awaken the dawn. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise You, O LORD, among the peoples, And I will sing praises to You among the nations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Your mercy is great above the heavens, And Your truth reaches to the clouds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be exalted, O God, above the heavens, And Your glory above all the earth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That Your beloved may be delivered, Save with Your right hand, and hear me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God has spoken in His holiness: "I will rejoice; I will divide Shechem And measure out the Valley of Succoth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Gilead is Mine; Manasseh is Mine; Ephraim also is the helmet for My head; Judah is My lawgiver. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Moab is My washpot; Over Edom I will cast My shoe; Over Philistia I will triumph." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who will bring me into the strong city? Who will lead me to Edom? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Is it not You, O God, who cast us off? And You, O God, who did not go out with our armies? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give us help from trouble, For the help of man is useless.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Through God we will do valiantly, For it is He who shall tread down our enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 109 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not keep silent, O God of my praise!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful Have opened against 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 me; They have spoken against me with a lying tongue. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have also surrounded me with words of hatred, And fought against me without a cause. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In return for my love they are my accusers, But I give myself to prayer. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Thus they have rewarded me evil for good, And hatred for my love.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Set a wicked man over him, And let an accuser stand at his right hand. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When he is judged, let him be found guilty, And let his prayer become sin. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let his days be few, And let another take his office. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let his children be fatherless, And his wife a widow.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let his children continually be vagabonds, and beg; Let them seek their bread also 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 from their desolate places.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the creditor seize all that he has, And let strangers plunder his labor. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let there be none to extend mercy to him, Nor let there be any to favor his fatherless children. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let his posterity be cut off, And in the generation following let their name be blotted out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the LORD, And let not the sin of his mother be blotted out. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be continually before the LORD, That He may cut off the memory of them from the earth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because he did not remember to show mercy, But persecuted the poor and needy man, That he might even slay the broken in heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As he loved cursing, so let it come to him; As he did not delight in blessing, so let it be far from him. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As he clothed himself with cursing as with his garment, So let it enter his body like water, And like oil into his bones. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let it be to him like the garment which covers him, And for a belt with which he girds himself continually. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let this be the LORD's reward to my accusers, And to those who speak evil against my person. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But You, O GOD the Lord, Deal with me for Your name's sake; Because Your mercy is good, deliver me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I am poor and needy, And my heart is wounded within me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am gone like a shadow when it lengthens; I am shaken off like a locust. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My knees are weak through fasting, And my flesh is feeble from lack of fatness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I also have become a reproach to them; When they look at me, they shake their heads. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Help me, O LORD my God! Oh, save me according to Your mercy,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That they may know that this is Your hand-- That You, LORD, have done it! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them curse, but You bless; When they arise, let them be ashamed, But let Your servant rejoice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let my accusers be clothed with shame, And let them cover themselves with their own disgrace as with a mantle. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will greatly praise the LORD with my mouth; Yes, I will praise Him among the multitude. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He shall stand at the right hand of the poor, To save him from those who condemn him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 110 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD said to my Lord, "Sit at My right hand, Till I make Your enemies Your footstool." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD shall send the rod of Your strength out of Zion. Rule in the midst of Your enemies! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your people shall be volunteers In the day of Your power; In the beauties of holiness, from the womb of the morning, You have the dew of Your youth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD has sworn And will not relent, "You are a priest forever According to the order of Melchizedek." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The Lord is at Your right hand; He shall execute kings in the day of His wrath.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall judge among the nations, He shall fill the places with dead bodies, He shall 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 execute the heads of many countries.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He shall drink of the brook by the wayside; Therefore He shall lift up the head. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 111 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD! I will praise the LORD with my whole heart, In the assembly of the upright and in the congregation. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The works of the LORD are great, Studied by all who have pleasure in them. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His work is honorable and glorious, And His righteousness endures forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has made His wonderful works to be remembered; The LORD is gracious and full of compassion. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has given food to those who fear Him; He will ever be mindful of His covenant. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has declared to His people the power of His works, In giving them the heritage of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 the nations.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The works of His hands are verity and justice; All His precepts are sure. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They stand fast forever and ever, And are done in truth and uprightness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has sent redemption to His people; He has commanded His covenant forever: Holy and awesome is His name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom; A good understanding have all those who do His commandments. His praise endures forever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 112 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD! Blessed is the man who fears the LORD, Who delights greatly in His commandments. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His descendants will be mighty on earth; The generation of the upright will be blessed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Wealth and riches will be in his house, And his righteousness endures forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Unto the upright there arises light in the darkness; He is gracious, and full of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 compassion, and righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A good man deals graciously and lends; He will guide his affairs with discretion. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely he will never be shaken; The righteous will be in everlasting remembrance. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will not be afraid of evil tidings; His heart is steadfast, trusting in the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His heart is established; He will not be afraid, Until he sees his desire upon his enemies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has dispersed abroad, He has given to the poor; His righteousness endures forever; His horn will be exalted with honor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked will see it and be grieved; He will gnash his teeth and melt away; The desire of the wicked shall perish. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 113 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD! Praise, O servants of the LORD, Praise the name of the LORD! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the name of the LORD From this time forth and forevermore!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 From the rising of the sun to its going down The LORD's name is to be praised. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is high above all nations, His glory above the heavens. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who is like the LORD our God, Who dwells on high, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who humbles Himself to behold The things that are in the heavens and in the earth? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He raises the poor out of the dust, And lifts the needy out of the ash heap, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That He may seat him with princes-- With the princes of His people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He grants the barren woman a home, Like a joyful mother of children. Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 114 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When Israel went out of Egypt, The house of Jacob from a people of strange language, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Judah became His sanctuary, And Israel His dominion.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The sea saw it and fled; Jordan turned back.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The mountains skipped like rams, The little hills like lambs.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What ails you, O sea, that you fled? O Jordan, that you turned back?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O mountains, that you skipped like rams? O little hills, like lambs?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Tremble, O earth, at the presence of the Lord, At the presence of the God of Jacob, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who turned the rock into a pool of water, The flint into a fountain of waters. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 115 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Not unto us, O LORD, not unto us, But to Your name give glory, Because of Your mercy, Because of Your truth. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Why should the Gentiles say, "So where is their God?" 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But our God is in heaven; He does whatever He pleases. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their idols are silver and gold, The work of men's hands. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have mouths, but they do not speak; Eyes they have, but they do not see; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have ears, but they do not hear; Noses they have, but they do not smell; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have hands, but they do not handle; Feet they have, but they do not walk; Nor do they mutter through their throat. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who make them are like them; So is everyone who trusts in them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O Israel, trust in the LORD; He is their help and their shield. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD; He is their help and their shield. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You who fear the LORD, trust in the LORD; He is their help and their shield. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD has been mindful of us; He will bless us; He will bless the house of Israel; He will bless the house of Aaron. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will bless those who fear the LORD, Both small and great. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May the LORD give you increase more and more, You and your children. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 May you be blessed by the LORD, Who made heaven and earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The heaven, even the heavens, are the LORD's; But the earth He has given to the children of men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The dead do not praise the LORD, Nor any who go down into silence.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But we will bless the LORD From this time forth and forevermore. Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 116 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I love the LORD, because He has heard My voice and my supplications. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because He has inclined His ear to me, Therefore I will call upon Him as long as I live. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The pains of death surrounded me, And the pangs of Sheol laid hold of me; I found trouble and sorrow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I called upon the name of the LORD: "O LORD, I implore You, deliver my soul!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; Yes, our God is merciful. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD preserves the simple; I was brought low, and He saved me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Return to your rest, O my soul, For the LORD has dealt bountifully with you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You have delivered my soul from death, My eyes from tears, And my feet from falling. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will walk before the LORD In the land of the living.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I believed, therefore I spoke, "I am greatly afflicted."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I said in my haste, "All men are liars."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What shall I render to the LORD For all His benefits toward me?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will take up the cup of salvation, And call upon the name of the LORD. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will pay my vows to the LORD Now in the presence of all His people. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Precious in the sight of the LORD Is the death of His saints. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, truly I am Your servant; I am Your servant, the son of Your maidservant; You have loosed my bonds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will offer to You the sacrifice of thanksgiving, And will call upon the name of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will pay my vows to the LORD Now in the presence of all His people, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the courts of the LORD's house, In the midst of you, O Jerusalem. Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 117 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD, all you Gentiles! Laud Him, all you peoples!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For His merciful kindness is great toward us, And the truth of the LORD endures 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 forever. Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 118 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, give thanks to the LORD, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Israel now say, "His mercy endures forever."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the house of Aaron now say, "His mercy endures forever."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let those who fear the LORD now say, "His mercy endures forever." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I called on the LORD in distress; The LORD answered me and set me in a broad place. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is for me among those who help me; Therefore I shall see my desire on 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 those who hate me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is better to trust in the LORD Than to put confidence in man. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is better to trust in the LORD Than to put confidence in princes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All nations surrounded me, But in the name of the LORD I will destroy them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They surrounded me, Yes, they surrounded me; But in the name of the LORD I will destroy them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They surrounded me like bees; They were quenched like a fire of thorns; For in the name of the LORD I will destroy them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You pushed me violently, that I might fall, But the LORD helped me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is my strength and song, And He has become my salvation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The voice of rejoicing and salvation Is in the tents of the righteous; The right hand of the LORD does valiantly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The right hand of the LORD is exalted; The right hand of the LORD does valiantly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I shall not die, but live, And declare the works of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD has chastened me severely, But He has not given me over to death. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Open to me the gates of righteousness; I will go through them, And I will praise the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This is the gate of the LORD, Through which the righteous shall enter. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise You, For You have answered me, And have become my salvation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The stone which the builders rejected Has become the chief cornerstone. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This was the LORD's doing; It is marvelous in our eyes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This is the day the LORD has made; We will rejoice and be glad in it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Save now, I pray, O LORD; O LORD, I pray, send now prosperity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD! We have blessed you from the house of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 God is the LORD, And He has given us light; Bind the sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are my God, and I will praise You; You are my God, I will exalt You. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, give thanks to the LORD, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 119 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed are the undefiled in the way, Who walk in the law of the LORD!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed are those who keep His testimonies, Who seek Him with the whole heart! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They also do no iniquity; They walk in His ways.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have commanded us To keep Your precepts diligently. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that my ways were directed To keep Your statutes! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then I would not be ashamed, When I look into all Your commandments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise You with uprightness of heart, When I learn Your righteous judgments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will keep Your statutes; Oh, do not forsake me utterly! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With my whole heart I have sought You; Oh, let me not wander from Your commandments! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your word I have hidden in my heart, That I might not sin against You. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed are You, O LORD! Teach me Your statutes.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With my lips I have declared All the judgments of Your mouth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have rejoiced in the way of Your testimonies, As much as in all riches. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will meditate on Your precepts, And contemplate Your ways. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will delight myself in Your statutes; I will not forget Your word.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deal bountifully with Your servant, That I may live and keep Your word.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Open my eyes, that I may see Wondrous things from Your law.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am a stranger in the earth; Do not hide Your commandments from me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul breaks with longing For Your judgments at all times.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You rebuke the proud--the cursed, Who stray from Your commandments.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remove from me reproach and contempt, For I have kept Your testimonies. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Princes also sit and speak against me, But Your servant meditates on Your statutes. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your testimonies also are my delight And my counselors. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul clings to the dust; Revive me according to Your word.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have declared my ways, and You answered me; Teach me Your statutes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 27
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make me understand the way of Your precepts; So shall I meditate on Your wonderful works. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 28
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul melts from heaviness; Strengthen me according to Your word. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 29
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remove from me the way of lying, And grant me Your law graciously. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 30
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have chosen the way of truth; Your judgments I have laid before me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 31
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I cling to Your testimonies; O LORD, do not put me to shame! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 32
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will run the course of Your commandments, For You shall enlarge my heart. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 33
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Teach me, O LORD, the way of Your statutes, And I shall keep it to the end. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 34
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Give me understanding, and I shall keep Your law; Indeed, I shall observe it with my whole heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 35
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make me walk in the path of Your commandments, For I delight in it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 36
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Incline my heart to Your testimonies, And not to covetousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 37
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Turn away my eyes from looking at worthless things, And revive me in Your way. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 38
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Establish Your word to Your servant, Who is devoted to fearing You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 39
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Turn away my reproach which I dread, For Your judgments are good. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 40
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, I long for Your precepts; Revive me in Your righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 41
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Your mercies come also to me, O LORD-- Your salvation according to Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 42
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So shall I have an answer for him who reproaches me, For I trust in Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 43
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, For I have hoped in Your ordinances. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 44
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 So shall I keep Your law continually, Forever and ever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 45
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And I will walk at liberty, For I seek Your precepts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 46
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will speak of Your testimonies also before kings, And will not be ashamed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 47
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And I will delight myself in Your commandments, Which I love. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 48
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My hands also I will lift up to Your commandments, Which I love, And I will meditate on Your statutes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 49
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remember the word to Your servant, Upon which You have caused me to hope. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 50
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This is my comfort in my affliction, For Your word has given me life.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 51
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The proud have me in great derision, Yet I do not turn aside from Your law.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 52
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I remembered Your judgments of old, O LORD, And have comforted myself. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 53
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indignation has taken hold of me Because of the wicked, who forsake Your law. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 54
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your statutes have been my songs In the house of my pilgrimage. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 55
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I remember Your name in the night, O LORD, And I keep Your law. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 56
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 This has become mine, Because I kept Your precepts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 57
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are my portion, O LORD; I have said that I would keep Your words. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 58
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I entreated Your favor with my whole heart; Be merciful to me according to Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 59
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I thought about my ways, And turned my feet to Your testimonies.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 60
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I made haste, and did not delay To keep Your commandments.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 61
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The cords of the wicked have bound me, But I have not forgotten Your law.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 62
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 At midnight I will rise to give thanks to You, Because of Your righteous judgments. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 63
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am a companion of all who fear You, And of those who keep Your precepts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 64
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The earth, O LORD, is full of Your mercy; Teach me Your statutes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 65
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have dealt well with Your servant, O LORD, according to Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 66
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Teach me good judgment and knowledge, For I believe Your commandments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 67
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Before I was afflicted I went astray, But now I keep Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 68
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are good, and do good; Teach me Your statutes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 69
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The proud have forged a lie against me, But I will keep Your precepts with my whole heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 70
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their heart is as fat as grease, But I delight in Your law. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 71
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is good for me that I have been afflicted, That I may learn Your statutes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 72
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The law of Your mouth is better to me Than thousands of coins of gold and silver. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 73
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your hands have made me and fashioned me; Give me understanding, that I may learn Your commandments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 74
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who fear You will be glad when they see me, Because I have hoped in Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 75
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I know, O LORD, that Your judgments are right, And that in faithfulness You have afflicted me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 76
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let, I pray, Your merciful kindness be for my comfort, According to Your word to Your servant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 77
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Your tender mercies come to me, that I may live; For Your law is my delight. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 78
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the proud be ashamed, For they treated me wrongfully with falsehood; But I will 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 meditate on Your precepts.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 79
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let those who fear You turn to me, Those who know Your testimonies.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 80
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let my heart be blameless regarding Your statutes, That I may not be ashamed. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 81
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul faints for Your salvation, But I hope in Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 82
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My eyes fail from searching Your word, Saying, "When will You comfort me?" 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 83
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I have become like a wineskin in smoke, Yet I do not forget Your statutes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 84
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How many are the days of Your servant? When will You execute judgment on those who persecute me? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 85
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The proud have dug pits for me, Which is not according to Your law. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 86
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All Your commandments are faithful; They persecute me wrongfully; Help me! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 87
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They almost made an end of me on earth, But I did not forsake Your precepts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 88
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Revive me according to Your lovingkindness, So that I may keep the testimony of Your mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 89
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Forever, O LORD, Your word is settled in heaven.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 90
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your faithfulness endures to all generations; You established the earth, and it 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 abides. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 91
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They continue this day according to Your ordinances, For all are Your servants. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 92
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Unless Your law had been my delight, I would then have perished in my affliction. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 93
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will never forget Your precepts, For by them You have given me life. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 94
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am Yours, save me; For I have sought Your precepts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 95
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked wait for me to destroy me, But I will consider Your testimonies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 96
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have seen the consummation of all perfection, But Your commandment is exceedingly broad. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 97
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, how I love Your law! It is my meditation all the day.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 98
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You, through Your commandments, make me wiser than my enemies; For they are 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 ever with me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 99
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have more understanding than all my teachers, For Your testimonies are my meditation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 100
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I understand more than the ancients, Because I keep Your precepts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 101
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have restrained my feet from every evil way, That I may keep Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 102
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have not departed from Your judgments, For You Yourself have taught me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 103
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How sweet are Your words to my taste, Sweeter than honey to my mouth! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 104
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Through Your precepts I get understanding; Therefore I hate every false way. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 105
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your word is a lamp to my feet And a light to my path. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 106
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have sworn and confirmed That I will keep Your righteous judgments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 107
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am afflicted very much; Revive me, O LORD, according to Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 108
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Accept, I pray, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, And teach me Your judgments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 109
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My life is continually in my hand, Yet I do not forget Your law.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 110
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The wicked have laid a snare for me, Yet I have not strayed from Your precepts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 111
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your testimonies I have taken as a heritage forever, For they are the rejoicing of my heart. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 112
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have inclined my heart to perform Your statutes Forever, to the very end. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 113
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I hate the double-minded, But I love Your law. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 114
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 115
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Depart from me, you evildoers, For I will keep the commandments of my God! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 116
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Uphold me according to Your word, that I may live; And do not let me be ashamed of my hope. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 117
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hold me up, and I shall be safe, And I shall observe Your statutes continually. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 118
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You reject all those who stray from Your statutes, For their deceit is falsehood. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 119
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You put away all the wicked of the earth like dross; Therefore I love Your testimonies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 120
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My flesh trembles for fear of You, And I am afraid of Your judgments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 121
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have done justice and righteousness; Do not leave me to my oppressors. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 122
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Be surety for Your servant for good; Do not let the proud oppress me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 123
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My eyes fail from seeking Your salvation And Your righteous word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 124
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deal with Your servant according to Your mercy, And teach me Your statutes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 125
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am Your servant; Give me understanding, That I may know Your testimonies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 126
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is time for You to act, O LORD, For they have regarded Your law as void. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 127
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore I love Your commandments More than gold, yes, than fine gold! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 128
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore all Your precepts concerning all things I consider to be right; I hate every false way. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 129
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your testimonies are wonderful; Therefore my soul keeps them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 130
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The entrance of Your words gives light; It gives understanding to the simple. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 131
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I opened my mouth and panted, For I longed for Your commandments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 132
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Look upon me and be merciful to me, As Your custom is toward those who love Your name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 133
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Direct my steps by Your word, And let no iniquity have dominion over me. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 134
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Redeem me from the oppression of man, That I may keep Your precepts. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 135
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Make Your face shine upon Your servant, And teach me Your statutes. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 136
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rivers of water run down from my eyes, Because men do not keep Your law. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 137
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Righteous are You, O LORD, And upright are Your judgments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 138
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your testimonies, which You have commanded, Are righteous and very faithful. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 139
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My zeal has consumed me, Because my enemies have forgotten Your words. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 140
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your word is very pure; Therefore Your servant loves it.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 141
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am small and despised, Yet I do not forget Your precepts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 142
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, And Your law is truth. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 143
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Trouble and anguish have overtaken me, Yet Your commandments are my 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 delights. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 144
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The righteousness of Your testimonies is everlasting; Give me understanding, and I shall live. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 145
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I cry out with my whole heart; Hear me, O LORD! I will keep Your statutes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 146
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I cry out to You; Save me, and I will keep Your testimonies. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 147
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I rise before the dawning of the morning, And cry for help; I hope in Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 148
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My eyes are awake through the night watches, That I may meditate on Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 149
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear my voice according to Your lovingkindness; O LORD, revive me according to Your justice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 150
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They draw near who follow after wickedness; They are far from Your law. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 151
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You are near, O LORD, And all Your commandments are truth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 152
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Concerning Your testimonies, I have known of old that You have founded them forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 153
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Consider my affliction and deliver me, For I do not forget Your law.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 154
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Plead my cause and redeem me; Revive me according to Your word.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 155
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Salvation is far from the wicked, For they do not seek Your statutes.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 156
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Great are Your tender mercies, O LORD; Revive me according to Your judgments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 157
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Many are my persecutors and my enemies, Yet I do not turn from Your testimonies. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 158
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I see the treacherous, and am disgusted, Because they do not keep Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 159
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Consider how I love Your precepts; Revive me, O LORD, according to Your lovingkindness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 160
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The entirety of Your word is truth, And every one of Your righteous judgments endures forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 161
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Princes persecute me without a cause, But my heart stands in awe of Your word. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 162
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I rejoice at Your word As one who finds great treasure.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 163
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I hate and abhor lying, But I love Your law.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 164
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Seven times a day I praise You, Because of Your righteous judgments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 165
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Great peace have those who love Your law, And nothing causes them to stumble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 166
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, I hope for Your salvation, And I do Your commandments. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 167
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul keeps Your testimonies, And I love them exceedingly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 168
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I keep Your precepts and Your testimonies, For all my ways are before You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 169
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let my cry come before You, O LORD; Give me understanding according to Your word. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 170
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let my supplication come before You; Deliver me according to Your word. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 171
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My lips shall utter praise, For You teach me Your statutes. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 172
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My tongue shall speak of Your word, For all Your commandments are righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 173
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Your hand become my help, For I have chosen Your precepts.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 174
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I long for Your salvation, O LORD, And Your law is my delight.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 175
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let my soul live, and it shall praise You; And let Your judgments help me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 176
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I have gone astray like a lost sheep; Seek Your servant, For I do not forget Your commandments. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 120 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In my distress I cried to the LORD, And He heard me.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver my soul, O LORD, from lying lips And from a deceitful tongue. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 What shall be given to you, Or what shall be done to you, You false tongue? 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sharp arrows of the warrior, With coals of the broom tree!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Woe is me, that I dwell in Meshech, That I dwell among the tents of Kedar! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul has dwelt too long With one who hates peace.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I am for peace; But when I speak, they are for war. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 121 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will lift up my eyes to the hills-- From whence comes my help?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My help comes from the LORD, Who made heaven and earth.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will not allow your foot to be moved; He who keeps you will not slumber. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, He who keeps Israel Shall neither slumber nor sleep.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is your keeper; The LORD is your shade at your right hand. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The sun shall not strike you by day, Nor the moon by night.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD shall preserve you from all evil; He shall preserve your soul. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD shall preserve your going out and your coming in From this time forth, and even forevermore. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 122 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I was glad when they said to me, "Let us go into the house of the LORD." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our feet have been standing Within your gates, O Jerusalem! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Jerusalem is built As a city that is compact together, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Where the tribes go up, The tribes of the LORD, To the Testimony of Israel, To give thanks to the name of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For thrones are set there for judgment, The thrones of the house of David.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: "May they prosper who love you.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Peace be within your walls, Prosperity within your palaces."\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the sake of my brethren and companions, I will now say, "Peace be within you." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Because of the house of the LORD our God I will seek your good. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 123 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Unto You I lift up my eyes, O You who dwell in the heavens. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, as the eyes of servants look to the hand of their masters, As the eyes of a maid to the hand of her mistress, So our eyes look to the LORD our God, Until He has mercy on us. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Have mercy on us, O LORD, have mercy on us! For we are exceedingly filled with contempt. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our soul is exceedingly filled With the scorn of those who are at ease, With the contempt of the proud. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 124 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If it had not been the LORD who was on our side," Let Israel now say--\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, When men rose up against us, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then they would have swallowed us alive, When their wrath was kindled against us; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the waters would have overwhelmed us, The stream would have gone over our soul; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then the swollen waters Would have gone over our soul." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the LORD, Who has not given us as prey to their teeth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our soul has escaped as a bird from the snare of the fowlers; The snare is broken, and we have escaped. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our help is in the name of the LORD, Who made heaven and earth. 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 125 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who trust in the LORD Are like Mount Zion, Which cannot be moved, but abides forever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As the mountains surround Jerusalem, So the LORD surrounds His people From this time forth and forever. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the scepter of wickedness shall not rest On the land allotted to the righteous, Lest the righteous reach out their hands to iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do good, O LORD, to those who are good, And to those who are upright in their hearts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 As for such as turn aside to their crooked ways, The LORD shall lead them away With the workers of iniquity. Peace be upon Israel! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 126 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When the LORD brought back the captivity of Zion, We were like those who dream. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Then our mouth was filled with laughter, And our tongue with singing. Then they said 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 among the nations, "The LORD has done great things for them." 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD has done great things for us, And we are glad. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bring back our captivity, O LORD, As the streams in the South. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who sow in tears Shall reap in joy. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He who continually goes forth weeping, Bearing seed for sowing, Shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, Bringing his sheaves with him. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 127 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Unless the LORD builds the house, They labor in vain who build it; Unless the LORD guards the city, The watchman stays awake in vain. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is vain for you to rise up early, To sit up late, To eat the bread of sorrows; For so He gives His beloved sleep. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, children are a heritage from the LORD, The fruit of the womb is a reward. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Like arrows in the hand of a warrior, So are the children of one's youth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Happy is the man who has his quiver full of them; They shall not be ashamed, But shall speak with their enemies in the gate. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 128 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed is every one who fears the LORD, Who walks in His ways.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When you eat the labor of your hands, You shall be happy, and it shall be well with 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 you. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your wife shall be like a fruitful vine In the very heart of your house, Your children like olive plants All around your table. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, thus shall the man be blessed Who fears the LORD.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD bless you out of Zion, And may you see the good of Jerusalem All the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 days of your life.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, may you see your children's children. Peace be upon Israel! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 129 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Many a time they have afflicted me from my youth," Let Israel now say-- 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Many a time they have afflicted me from my youth; Yet they have not prevailed against me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The plowers plowed on my back; They made their furrows long." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is righteous; He has cut in pieces the cords of the wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let all those who hate Zion Be put to shame and turned back. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them be as the grass on the housetops, Which withers before it grows up, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With which the reaper does not fill his hand, Nor he who binds sheaves, his arms. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Neither let those who pass by them say, "The blessing of the LORD be upon you; We bless you in the name of the LORD!" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 130 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Out of the depths I have cried to You, O LORD; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lord, hear my voice! Let Your ears be attentive To the voice of my supplications. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If You, LORD, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But there is forgiveness with You, That You may be feared. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I wait for the LORD, my soul waits, And in His word I do hope. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My soul waits for the Lord More than those who watch for the morning-- Yes, more than those who watch for the morning. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O Israel, hope in the LORD; For with the LORD there is mercy, And with Him is abundant redemption. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He shall redeem Israel From all his iniquities. 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 131 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, my heart is not haughty, Nor my eyes lofty. Neither do I concern myself with great matters, Nor with things too profound for me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely I have calmed and quieted my soul, Like a weaned child with his mother; Like a weaned child is my soul within me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O Israel, hope in the LORD From this time forth and forever. 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 132 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, remember David And all his afflictions;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How he swore to the LORD, And vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob: 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "Surely I will not go into the chamber of my house, Or go up to the comfort of my bed; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will not give sleep to my eyes Or slumber to my eyelids, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Until I find a place for the LORD, A dwelling place for the Mighty One of Jacob." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah; We found it in the fields of the woods. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let us go into His tabernacle; Let us worship at His footstool. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Arise, O LORD, to Your resting place, You and the ark of Your strength. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Your priests be clothed with righteousness, And let Your saints shout for joy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For Your servant David's sake, Do not turn away the face of Your Anointed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD has sworn in truth to David; He will not turn from it: "I will set upon your throne the fruit of your body. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If your sons will keep My covenant And My testimony which I shall teach them, Their sons also shall sit upon your throne forevermore." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD has chosen Zion; He has desired it for His dwelling place:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "This is My resting place forever; Here I will dwell, for I have desired it.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will abundantly bless her provision; I will satisfy her poor with bread.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will also clothe her priests with salvation, And her saints shall shout aloud for joy. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 There I will make the horn of David grow; I will prepare a lamp for My Anointed. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His enemies I will clothe with shame, But upon Himself His crown shall flourish." 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 133 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, how good and how pleasant it is For brethren to dwell together in unity!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is like the precious oil upon the head, Running down on the beard, The beard of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 Aaron, Running down on the edge of his garments. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 It is like the dew of Hermon, Descending upon the mountains of Zion; For there the LORD commanded the blessing-- Life forevermore. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 134 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Behold, bless the LORD, All you servants of the LORD, Who by night stand in the house of the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, And bless the LORD. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD who made heaven and earth Bless you from Zion! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 135 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD! Praise the name of the LORD; Praise Him, O you servants of the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You who stand in the house of the LORD, In the courts of the house of our God, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD, for the LORD is good; Sing praises to His name, for it is pleasant. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD has chosen Jacob for Himself, Israel for His special treasure. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For I know that the LORD is great, And our Lord is above all gods. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whatever the LORD pleases He does, In heaven and in earth, In the seas and in all deep places. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He causes the vapors to ascend from the ends of the earth; He makes lightning for the rain; He brings the wind out of His treasuries. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He destroyed the firstborn of Egypt, Both of man and beast. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sent signs and wonders into the midst of you, O Egypt, Upon Pharaoh and all his servants. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He defeated many nations And slew mighty kings-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sihon king of the Amorites, Og king of Bashan, And all the kingdoms of Canaan-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And gave their land as a heritage, A heritage to Israel His people. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your name, O LORD, endures forever, Your fame, O LORD, throughout all generations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD will judge His people, And He will have compassion on His servants. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The idols of the nations are silver and gold, The work of men's hands.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have mouths, but they do not speak; Eyes they have, but they do not see; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They have ears, but they do not hear; Nor is there any breath in their mouths. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Those who make them are like them; So is everyone who trusts in them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bless the LORD, O house of Israel! Bless the LORD, O house of Aaron! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bless the LORD, O house of Levi! You who fear the LORD, bless the LORD! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, Who dwells in Jerusalem! Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 136 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, give thanks to the LORD, for He is good! For His mercy endures forever. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, give thanks to the God of gods! For His mercy endures forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, give thanks to the Lord of lords! For His mercy endures forever:\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To Him who alone does great wonders, For His mercy endures forever; 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To Him who by wisdom made the heavens, For His mercy endures forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To Him who laid out the earth above the waters, For His mercy endures forever; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To Him who made great lights, For His mercy endures forever--\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The sun to rule by day, For His mercy endures forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The moon and stars to rule by night, For His mercy endures forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To Him who struck Egypt in their firstborn, For His mercy endures forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And brought out Israel from among them, For His mercy endures forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 With a strong hand, and with an outstretched arm, For His mercy endures forever; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To Him who divided the Red Sea in two, For His mercy endures forever; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And made Israel pass through the midst of it, For His mercy endures forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But overthrew Pharaoh and his army in the Red Sea, For His mercy endures 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To Him who led His people through the wilderness, For His mercy endures forever; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To Him who struck down great kings, For His mercy endures forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And slew famous kings, For His mercy endures forever--\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sihon king of the Amorites, For His mercy endures forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And Og king of Bashan, For His mercy endures forever--\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And gave their land as a heritage, For His mercy endures forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 A heritage to Israel His servant, For His mercy endures forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who remembered us in our lowly state, For His mercy endures forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And rescued us from our enemies, For His mercy endures forever;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 25
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who gives food to all flesh, For His mercy endures forever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 26
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, give thanks to the God of heaven! For His mercy endures forever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 137 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 By the rivers of Babylon, There we sat down, yea, we wept When we remembered Zion. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 We hung our harps Upon the willows in the midst of it.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For there those who carried us away captive asked of us a song, And those who 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 plundered us requested mirth, Saying, "Sing us one of the songs of Zion!" 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How shall we sing the LORD's song In a foreign land? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I forget you, O Jerusalem, Let my right hand forget its skill! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I do not remember you, Let my tongue cling to the roof of my mouth-- If I do not exalt Jerusalem Above my chief joy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Remember, O LORD, against the sons of Edom The day of Jerusalem, Who said, "Raze it, raze it, To its very foundation!" 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O daughter of Babylon, who are to be destroyed, Happy the one who repays you as you have served us! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Happy the one who takes and dashes Your little ones against the rock! 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 138 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise You with my whole heart; Before the gods I will sing praises to You. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will worship toward Your holy temple, And praise Your name For Your lovingkindness and Your truth; For You have magnified Your word above all Your name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In the day when I cried out, You answered me, And made me bold with strength in my soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All the kings of the earth shall praise You, O LORD, When they hear the words of Your mouth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Yes, they shall sing of the ways of the LORD, For great is the glory of the LORD. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though the LORD is on high, Yet He regards the lowly; But the proud He knows from afar. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Though I walk in the midst of trouble, You will revive me; You will stretch out Your hand Against the wrath of my enemies, And Your right hand will save me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD will perfect that which concerns me; Your mercy, O LORD, endures forever; Do not forsake the works of Your hands. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 139 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O LORD, You have searched me and known me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You know my sitting down and my rising up; You understand my thought afar off. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You comprehend my path and my lying down, And are acquainted with all my ways. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For there is not a word on my tongue, But behold, O LORD, You know it altogether. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You have hedged me behind and before, And laid Your hand upon me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; It is high, I cannot attain it. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Where can I go from Your Spirit? Or where can I flee from Your presence? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I ascend into heaven, You are there; If I make my bed in hell, behold, You are there. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I take the wings of the morning, And dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Even there Your hand shall lead me, And Your right hand shall hold me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I say, "Surely the darkness shall fall on me," Even the night shall be light about me; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Indeed, the darkness shall not hide from You, But the night shines as the day; The darkness and the light are both alike to You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For You formed my inward parts; You covered me in my mother's womb. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will praise You, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; Marvelous are Your works, And that my soul knows very well. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My frame was not hidden from You, When I was made in secret, And skillfully wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your eyes saw my substance, being yet unformed. And in Your book they all were written, The days fashioned for me, When as yet there were none of them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 How precious also are Your thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 If I should count them, they would be more in number than the sand; When I awake, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 I am still with You. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Oh, that You would slay the wicked, O God! Depart from me, therefore, you bloodthirsty men. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For they speak against You wickedly; Your enemies take Your name in vain.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do I not hate them, O LORD, who hate You? And do I not loathe those who rise up 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 against You?\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 22
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I hate them with perfect hatred; I count them my enemies.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 23
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Search me, O God, and know my heart; Try me, and know my anxieties; 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 24
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And see if there is any wicked way in me, And lead me in the way everlasting. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 140 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver me, O LORD, from evil men; Preserve me from violent men,\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who plan evil things in their hearts; They continually gather together for war. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They sharpen their tongues like a serpent; The poison of asps is under their lips.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; Preserve me from violent men, Who have purposed to make my steps stumble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The proud have hidden a snare for me, and cords; They have spread a net by the wayside; They have set traps for me.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I said to the LORD: "You are my God; Hear the voice of my supplications, O LORD. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 O GOD the Lord, the strength of my salvation, You have covered my head in the day 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 of battle. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not grant, O LORD, the desires of the wicked; Do not further his wicked scheme, Lest they be exalted.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 "As for the head of those who surround me, Let the evil of their lips cover them;\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let burning coals fall upon them; Let them be cast into the fire, Into deep pits, that 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 they rise not up again. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let not a slanderer be established in the earth; Let evil hunt the violent man to overthrow him." 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I know that the LORD will maintain The cause of the afflicted, And justice for the poor. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Surely the righteous shall give thanks to Your name; The upright shall dwell in Your presence. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 141 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, I cry out to You; Make haste to me! Give ear to my voice when I cry out to You. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let my prayer be set before You as incense, The lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Set a guard, O LORD, over my mouth; Keep watch over the door of my lips.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not incline my heart to any evil thing, To practice wicked works With men who 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 work iniquity; And do not let me eat of their delicacies. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the righteous strike me; It shall be a kindness. And let him rebuke me; It shall be as excellent oil; Let my head not refuse it. For still my prayer is against the deeds of the wicked. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Their judges are overthrown by the sides of the cliff, And they hear my words, for they are sweet. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Our bones are scattered at the mouth of the grave, As when one plows and breaks up the earth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 But my eyes are upon You, O GOD the Lord; In You I take refuge; Do not leave my soul destitute. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Keep me from the snares they have laid for me, And from the traps of the workers of iniquity. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the wicked fall into their own nets, While I escape safely. 
\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 142 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I cry out to the LORD with my voice; With my voice to the LORD I make my supplication. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I pour out my complaint before Him; I declare before Him my trouble.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, Then You knew my path. In the way in 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 which I walk They have secretly set a snare for me. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Look on my right hand and see, For there is no one who acknowledges me; Refuge has failed me; No one cares for my soul. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I cried out to You, O LORD: I said, "You are my refuge, My portion in the land of the living. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Attend to my cry, For I am brought very low; Deliver me from my persecutors, For they are stronger than I. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bring my soul out of prison, That I may praise Your name; The righteous shall surround me, For You shall deal bountifully with me." 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 143 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Hear my prayer, O LORD, Give ear to my supplications! In Your faithfulness answer me, And in Your righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not enter into judgment with Your servant, For in Your sight no one living is righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the enemy has persecuted my soul; He has crushed my life to the ground; He has made me dwell in darkness, Like those who have long been dead. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Therefore my spirit is overwhelmed within me; My heart within me is distressed.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I remember the days of old; I meditate on all Your works; I muse on the work of Your 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 hands.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I spread out my hands to You; My soul longs for You like a thirsty land.Selah 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Answer me speedily, O LORD; My spirit fails! Do not hide Your face from me, Lest I be like those who go down into the pit. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Cause me to hear Your lovingkindness in the morning, For in You do I trust; Cause me to know the way in which I should walk, For I lift up my soul to You. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Deliver me, O LORD, from my enemies; In You I take shelter.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Teach me to do Your will, For You are my God; Your Spirit is good. Lead me in the 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 land of uprightness. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Revive me, O LORD, for Your name's sake! For Your righteousness' sake bring my soul out of trouble. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 In Your mercy cut off my enemies, And destroy all those who afflict my soul; For I am Your servant. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 144 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Blessed be the LORD my Rock, Who trains my hands for war, And my fingers for battle-- 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My lovingkindness and my fortress, My high tower and my deliverer, My shield and the One in whom I take refuge, Who subdues my people under me. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 LORD, what is man, that You take knowledge of him? Or the son of man, that You are mindful of him? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Man is like a breath; His days are like a passing shadow.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Bow down Your heavens, O LORD, and come down; Touch the mountains, and they 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 shall smoke.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Flash forth lightning and scatter them; Shoot out Your arrows and destroy them. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Stretch out Your hand from above; Rescue me and deliver me out of great waters, From the hand of foreigners, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Whose mouth speaks lying words, And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will sing a new song to You, O God; On a harp of ten strings I will sing praises to 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 You, 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The One who gives salvation to kings, Who delivers David His servant From the deadly sword. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Rescue me and deliver me from the hand of foreigners, Whose mouth speaks lying words, And whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood-- 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth; That our daughters may be as pillars, Sculptured in palace style; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That our barns may be full, Supplying all kinds of produce; That our sheep may bring forth thousands And ten thousands in our fields; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 That our oxen may be well laden; That there be no breaking in or going out; That there be no outcry in our streets. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Happy are the people who are in such a state; Happy are the people whose God is the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 145 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will extol You, my God, O King; And I will bless Your name forever and ever. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Every day I will bless You, And I will praise Your name forever and ever.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; And His greatness is unsearchable. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 One generation shall praise Your works to another, And shall declare Your mighty acts. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 I will meditate on the glorious splendor of Your majesty, And on Your wondrous works. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Men shall speak of the might of Your awesome acts, And I will declare Your greatness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They shall utter the memory of Your great goodness, And shall sing of Your righteousness. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is gracious and full of compassion, Slow to anger and great in mercy. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is good to all, And His tender mercies are over all His works.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 All Your works shall praise You, O LORD, And Your saints shall bless You. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 They shall speak of the glory of Your kingdom, And talk of Your power, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To make known to the sons of men His mighty acts, And the glorious majesty of His kingdom. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, And Your dominion endures throughout all generations. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD upholds all who fall, And raises up all who are bowed down.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The eyes of all look expectantly to You, And You give them their food in due 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 season. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 You open Your hand And satisfy the desire of every living thing. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is righteous in all His ways, Gracious in all His works. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD is near to all who call upon Him, To all who call upon Him in truth. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He will fulfill the desire of those who fear Him; He also will hear their cry and save them. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD preserves all who love Him, But all the wicked He will destroy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 21
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 My mouth shall speak the praise of the LORD, And all flesh shall bless His holy name Forever and ever. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 146 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD! Praise the LORD, O my soul!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 While I live I will praise the LORD; I will sing praises to my God while I have my 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 being. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Do not put your trust in princes, Nor in a son of man, in whom there is no help. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 His spirit departs, he returns to his earth; In that very day his plans perish. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Happy is he who has the God of Jacob for his help, Whose hope is in the LORD his God, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who made heaven and earth, The sea, and all that is in them; Who keeps truth forever, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who executes justice for the oppressed, Who gives food to the hungry. The LORD gives freedom to the prisoners. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD opens the eyes of the blind; The LORD raises those who are bowed down; The LORD loves the righteous. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD watches over the strangers; He relieves the fatherless and widow; But the way of the wicked He turns upside down. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD shall reign forever-- Your God, O Zion, to all generations. Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 147 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD! For it is good to sing praises to our God; For it is pleasant, and praise is beautiful. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD builds up Jerusalem; He gathers together the outcasts of Israel. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He heals the brokenhearted And binds up their wounds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He counts the number of the stars; He calls them all by name. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Great is our Lord, and mighty in power; His understanding is infinite. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD lifts up the humble; He casts the wicked down to the ground. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Sing to the LORD with thanksgiving; Sing praises on the harp to our God, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Who covers the heavens with clouds, Who prepares rain for the earth, Who makes grass to grow on the mountains. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He gives to the beast its food, And to the young ravens that cry.\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He does not delight in the strength of the horse; He takes no pleasure in the legs of 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 a man. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 The LORD takes pleasure in those who fear Him, In those who hope in His mercy. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For He has strengthened the bars of your gates; He has blessed your children within you. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He makes peace in your borders, And fills you with the finest wheat. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 15
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sends out His command to the earth; His word runs very swiftly. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 16
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He gives snow like wool; He scatters the frost like ashes; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 17
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He casts out His hail like morsels; Who can stand before His cold? 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 18
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He sends out His word and melts them; He causes His wind to blow, and the waters flow. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 19
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He declares His word to Jacob, His statutes and His judgments to Israel. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 20
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He has not dealt thus with any nation; And as for His judgments, they have not known them. Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 148 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD! Praise the LORD from the heavens; Praise Him in the heights! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise Him, all His angels; Praise Him, all His hosts!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise Him, sun and moon; Praise Him, all you stars of light!\uc0\u8232 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise Him, you heavens of heavens, And you waters above the heavens! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them praise the name of the LORD, For He commanded and they were created. 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 He also established them forever and ever; He made a decree which shall not pass 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl300\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 away. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD from the earth, You great sea creatures and all the depths; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Fire and hail, snow and clouds; Stormy wind, fulfilling His word; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Mountains and all hills; Fruitful trees and all cedars; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 10
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Beasts and all cattle; Creeping things and flying fowl; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 11
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Kings of the earth and all peoples; Princes and all judges of the earth; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 12
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Both young men and maidens; Old men and children. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 13
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them praise the name of the LORD, For His name alone is exalted; His glory is above the earth and heaven. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 14
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 And He has exalted the horn of His people, The praise of all His saints-- Of the children of Israel, A people near to Him. Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 149 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD! Sing to the LORD a new song, And His praise in the assembly of saints. 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let Israel rejoice in their Maker; Let the children of Zion be joyful in their King. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let them praise His name with the dance; Let them sing praises to Him with the timbrel and harp. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 For the LORD takes pleasure in His people; He will beautify the humble with salvation. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the saints be joyful in glory; Let them sing aloud on their beds. 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, And a two-edged sword in their hand, 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 7
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To execute vengeance on the nations, And punishments on the peoples; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 8
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To bind their kings with chains, And their nobles with fetters of iron; 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 9
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 To execute on them the written judgment-- This honor have all His saints. Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\sa240\partightenfactor0

\b\fs32 \cf2 PSALM 150 
\b0\fs24 \cf3 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\b\fs16 \cf2 \up13 1
\b0\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise the LORD! Praise God in His sanctuary; Praise Him in His mighty firmament! 
\f0\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl180\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 2
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise Him for His mighty acts; Praise Him according to His excellent greatness! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 3
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise Him with the sound of the trumpet; Praise Him with the lute and harp! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 4
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise Him with the timbrel and dance; Praise Him with stringed instruments and flutes! 
\f0\fs24 \

\f1\fs16 \cf2 \up13 5
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Praise Him with loud cymbals; Praise Him with clashing cymbals! 
\fs16 \cf2 \up13 6
\fs26\fsmilli13333 \cf3 \up0 Let everything that has breath praise the LORD. Praise the LORD! 
\f0\fs24 \
}